
                              1 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            September 2, 2013 Monday

Riots happen during concert in Kazakhstan.

LENGTH: 163  words


Riots sparked during a concert at the Prime Plaza trade and entertainment centre
after a Kazakh Singer Kairat Nurtas left the scene after singing just one song.
In result the of the riots, 165 participants in mass disorder were set to police
departments. A criminal case on hooliganism was initiated over the riots. At the
same time, a criminal case against Prime Plaza administration over a careless
attitude to duties was launched. The Prosecutor noted that the administration
had failed to obtain official permission for the mass entertainment event
because the platform they had used was not suitable. Instigators of the
disorders could face up to 7 years in prison.

The events are a challenge for the current Almaty mayor Akhmetzhan Yessimov who
came to the place immediately after the disorders started. The riots will be
also a good reasoning for pursuing ongoing reform in the law enforcement
agencies which is aimed at increasing capabilities with organizing mass events.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              2 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Russia Today

                               May 2, 2014 Friday

Odessa: Criminal money seen behind deadly riot and other separatist action,
sources

LENGTH: 641  words


ODESSA (IntellINews Capitol Intelligence) -- Criminal money, or business with
interest in organized crime, is now seen as a driving  force behind the riots
and deaths in Odessa and elsewhere, Ukrainian and Western sources said.

Today in Odessa, a planned soccer match between the Kharkov's Metalist football
team in eastern Ukraine and Odessa's Chornomorets shattered the southern port
city renowned for its multi-ethnic peace between Ukrainians, Russian ethnics and
Jews, leaving between at least 8 to 12 people dead and hundreds injured.
(Subsequent media have reported that more than 30 people were killed.)

The violence started abruptly in the town center between political activists
hiding between soccer fans and degenerated into a full-scale armed riot leading
to the seizure of Odessa's Professional Union building by pro-Russian political
forces.

Ukrainian Deputy Foreign Minister Danylo Lubkivsky told this news service that
Ukraine needs to confront those controlling "criminal money" in Ukraine, a term
often used to refer to money controlled by the country's powerful oligarchs.

A NATO source working in Ukraine (and previously in Afghanistan) said he had
intelligence that the unrest in eastern cities such as Donetsk and Slovyansk and
now a southern city such as Odessa is being orchestrated by a five oligarchs in
effort to boost their power with the new central government and acquire assets
on the cheap.

"It is all a play for power and by destabilizing the regions, they show Kiev
that whatever government is elected need to deal with them to have peace and get
things done," the source said.

In fact, this is the number one complaint of all Ukrainians -- whether
Ukrainian, Russian ethnic or Jewish --  that criminal organized crime gangs have
a stranglehold on all aspects of the economy and that most skilled Ukrainians
have left to seek work in the EU, US/Canada, and even Russia.

Capitol Intel has seen first hand that much of the unrest comes from internal
sources.  Today in Odessa, police and Ukrainian military did not intervene until
hours after the riots began and claimed numerous lives.

In fact, Ukrainian police could be seen in freshly ironed uniforms, smoking
cigarettes and viewing the violence as passive onlookers.

The border between mainland Ukraine and Crimea was calm accept for a kilomter
long-lines of trucks attempting to bring in supplies to peninsula.   The Russian
border guards acted politely and were unarmed.

To all accounts, Odessa remains the key to Ukraine success as a viable country.
Goneh Siboni, an Israeli medical student here and former military medic, went
into the violent situation with other Israeli medical students to treat the
injured.

Siboni said that Odessa would be an economic paradise with its port, tourism and
industry but all one sees is "evidence of money laundering,"

Even foreigners, such Italian Stefano Osler who owns the Wildix VOIP group in
Odessa, are afraid to talk about their businesses for fear of angering local
"businessmen."

Andrew Bain, an American media business owner in Kiev, said the most effective
way to bring stability to the country is bringing foreign direct investment into
the country.

Another CEO said that taking over existing Ukrainian businesses, especially
using the funds from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD), the US Overseas Private Investmet Corporation (OPIC), and the World
Bank's  International Finance Corporation (IFC) would be the most effective way
of pushing out "criminal money" and allow Ukraine to recover economically.

The EBRD annual meeting in Warsaw in mid-May and Polish companies and investment
banks and lawyers based in Warsaw are expected to lead the way in a new deal
flow to the country.

By PK Semler in Odessa, Ukraine.  For more information please call
+1-202-549-3399 or email analyst@intellinews.com


LOAD-DATE: May 05, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            February 16, 2015 Monday

Ethnic clashes dent Kazakhstan's utopian image

LENGTH: 1768  words


A murder does not usually merit much attention in Kazakhstan, but when an ethnic
Tajik killed an ethnic Kazakh during a row over money in the country's
densely-populated, ethnically-mixed south in February, the crime made headlines
due to the resulting inter-communal riot - an occurrence which so far has been
extremely rare in post-independence Kazakhstan.

As ethnic Tajik property was attacked and set on fire on the night of February
5, the Kazakh authorities scrambled to control the situation, deploying heavily
armed security personnel and cutting off mobile and internet communications in
the area. Embarrassingly, all this took place on a day that President Nursultan
Nazarbayev had celebrated "the unity of our people and accord in our
multi-ethnic society".

The incident took place in the village of Yntymak (which ironically translates
from Kazakh as "unity" or "solidarity"), when protests by a group of ethnic
Kazakh men culminated in an angry raid on Tajik neighbourhoods. Although no
physical harm was inflicted on any ethnic Tajiks - who hastily organised
self-defence groups - the rioters broke windows and burnt several cars and
lorries, as well as a number of houses belonging to Tajiks. Although some Kazakh
houses were hit in reprisals, the material damage in the village seemed to be
selective.

Some local Kazakhs said the violence was intended as a warning to Tajiks and
other minorities. "People's anger has been building up for years and this murder
was just a pretext to warn Tajiks that they have become too audacious," a local
Kazakh who gave his name as Ospan told bne IntelliNews. "This will also serve as
a lesson to other ethnic groups to behave."

Such talk belies President Nazarbayev's cultivated message of ethnic harmony.
Since independence in 1991, the Kazakh president has portrayed the country as an
island of political, economic and inter-ethnic stability in a sea of
inter-communal strife elsewhere in the former Soviet Union. The relative
stability of Kazakhstan, a home to some 120 ethnic groups, was achieved largely
thanks to an oil-fuelled economic boom in the decade to 2008. "Kazakhstan is one
land, one people, one future," Nazarbayev declared on February 6, citing a
popular slogan trumpeting unity.

Nazarbayev was speaking at a session of the Assembly of Kazakhstan's People, a
pro-government body of ethnic groups set up 20 years ago, designating this year
as the "Year of the Assembly of Kazakhstan's People". "Our Kazakh path is a path
of peace, accord and development," he said ingratiatingly.

Yet many ordinary Kazakhs are growing increasingly sceptical of the government's
assertion that the many ethnic groups in Kazakh society live together in a
tatu-tatti manner (which translates from Kazakh approximately as "lovey-dovey").
If this is true, people mutter, why do inter-ethnic conflicts occasionally erupt
in different parts of the country?

Troublemakers

Ethnic Tajiks, who number 9,000 in Saryagash District's 310,000-strong
population, told bne IntelliNews that they did not see the raid coming following
the personal dispute over the money for leasing greenhouses. They expressed
anger at being singled out for collective punishment for the crime of one man,
who is now under arrest.

Some speculated that the raid was carried out by outsiders, by Kazakhs not from
the area - a view indicative of the lack of reliable information that surrounds
such events, due to the government's kneejerk clampdown on the press and social
media, which inevitably gives rise to wild rumours and assumptions. Ethnic Tajik
villagers spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing reprisals from the local
authorities, who imposed a blockade on the village in all but name. Tajiks said
the raid was a deliberate and planned provocation. In support of their
suspicions, they said mobile networks had gone down a few hours before the
violence started - a claim bne IntelliNews could not independently confirm.

Four days after the night-time incident, Yntymak still remained cut off from the
internet, while mobile telephones supported only limited 2G services. By
shutting down the internet and 3G services in the entire South Kazakh Region,
the authorities hoped to prevent videos of the riot from leaking onto YouTube
and other video-sharing websites, and stop trouble spreading to other parts of
the country. According to a statement handed to bne IntelliNews on February 9 at
the police headquarters set up to investigate the murder, the situation in the
area "has been fully stabilised" and "all services are operating in a routine
mode". The police refused to admit the conflict was inter-ethnic, maintaining it
was "domestic".

Zaure Khamzayeva, head of the Saryagash District internal policy department,
also denied to bne IntelliNews that the conflict was inter-ethnic and said it
was a "domestic conflict between two former friends". Asked why there were so
many heavily armed security officers if the conflict was purely domestic,
Khamzayeva replied: "In order to maintain accord between people."

The local authorities in South Kazakhstan Region, the country's most populous
region with the highest share of a minority population apart from ethnic
Russians - ethnic Uzbeks constitute nearly 17% of its total population - play
down the ethnic factor in the conflict, fearing it will cast doubt on the
government's claim that Kazakhstan is a land of inter-ethnic harmony. Yet this
is not the first time that the region has been shaken by a dispute involving
minorities. In 2007, a Kazakh mob attacked ethnic Kurdish families over
suspected sexual abuse against a four-year-old Kazakh boy by a 16-year-old
Kurdish adolescent. In order to ensure the security of the Kurdish families
whose houses were burnt down, the authorities had to relocate them to a safer
place.

With the aim of pacifying angry Kazakhs in this latest event, the authorities
announced the detention of the suspected killer and his extradition from
Uzbekistan, where he had fled to after the murder (Saryagash District borders
Uzbekistan) within three days. It is not yet clear where and when he will be
tried, but one police officer told bne IntelliNews on condition of anonymity
that the trial would likely be soon, in order to show that justice can be
delivered. This would go some way to appeasing locals who complain that corrupt
police, prosecutors and courts often allow rich offenders to evade justice.

Greenhouse effect

There is some evidence this latest ethnic flare-up is the result of social
problems and the growing rich-poor divide in the region. "You won't find a Tajik
who doesn't drive a good car," lamented one Kazakh man who declined to give his
name.

South Kazakhstan Region had the highest share of the population living below the
poverty line at 6.9% versus the nationwide level of 2.9% in the third quarter of
2014, which grew to 8.9% in rural areas (4.6% nationwide). Yet ethnic Tajiks
appear relatively well-off, as evidenced by the bigger houses in their
neighbourhoods.

Tajiks themselves explain their relative wealth by hard work as crop farmers.
Weather conditions allow locals to grow tomatoes in a myriad of greenhouses
dotted around the Saryagash District - one of which became the catalyst for the
conflict, sparked by the Tajik lessee's debt to the Kazakh lessor.

Tajik farmers complained that they can't now reach their plots because of the
police presence, and as well as now fearing for their security they have to find
money to repair their trashed houses. A middle-aged Tajik woman told bne
IntelliNews that her plans for tomato greenhouses had been crushed by the
attack: a mob tried to set her house ablaze and burnt a new car she had recently
bought with two years' worth of savings. While her holding is not big - only
1,200 square metres - it generated enough revenue for her family of three
children and four grandchildren to live off. She said she had hoped to make
around $8,000 this year by growing tomatoes like in previous years, but the loss
of the car and uncertainty over her family's personal safety would make it
difficult to grow a good harvest. "Our car was burnt down and our house was
damaged. Will we be compensated for that?" she asked rhetorically.

Not just farmers but other businesses are also suffering from the aftermath of
the riot. Since the authorities blocked communications networks in the district,
people have complained about temporary problems with buying car insurance or
dealing with their pension accounts, as insurance and pension agents could not
access online databases. Even the local Tajik-language school, whose glass
entrance was broken by a stone thrown by the attackers, was temporarily shut for
security reasons.

Not so lovey-dovey

In the aftermath of any riot, the big question is what impact this will have on
community relations elsewhere in the country - something this Kazakh government
is fixated on to the point of obsession. President Nazarbayev styles himself as
the guarantor of the constitution and stability in society, and this latest
inter-ethnic conflict will be hugely concerning for the elites in Astana, not
least because it could hurt the country's image abroad. That image was already
tested by the violent suppression of striking oil workers in Kazakhstan's
western Mangystau Province in December 2011, which left at least 14 protestors
dead in the oil town of Zhanaozen.

Ethnic clashes, like the latest one in South Kazakhstan Region or the one
between Kurds and Kazakhs in 2007, raise questions about how stable inter-ethnic
relations really are in Kazakhstan. Given it is hard for the authorities to
admit the presence of ethnic tensions as it would imply a failure of
Nazarbayev's policy, the true picture cannot be discerned or discussed in an
open and transparent way until it is too late and the situation boils over.

More worrying is what might happen if a "domestic" conflict arose between
Kazakhs and ethnic Russians, especially in the northern border areas where the
latter make up between 30% and 50% of the local population. Such an event could
be used as an excuse by Moscow to grab swathes of Kazakh land under the pretext
of defending the rights of ethnic Russians and Russian speakers, just as it's
doing in Ukraine right now . Some analysts argue the Kremlin would eagerly seize
such an opportunity to bolster public support at home and divert people's
attention from economic troubles.

With the aging Nazarbayev looking warily at a belligerent and aggressive Russia
over the border to the north, it's little wonder he wants to maintain the
appearance of inter-ethnic harmony in the country.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

Southern Kazakhstan suffers inter-ethnic clashes

LENGTH: 373  words


Inter-ethnic clashes were sparked in Saryagash District in the Southern Kazakh
Region after a 30-year-old resident of Yntymak village was killed on February 4.
During the riots between ethnic Tajiks and Kazakhs that lasted several hours,
around ten cars were burnt, a few people suffered in the fighting, and several
houses and retail outlets were also set on fire before being quickly put out by
the fire service.

The clashes started after the relatives of the killed Kazakh man began demanding
the guilty be punished during a street rally. As a result, a group of several
hundred Tajiks and Kazakh nationals gathered and started rioting. The situation
was eventually taken under control by personnel of the Saryagash district police
department, the Abay security agency and servicemen of the military unit No 2020
of Border Services of the Kazakh National Security Committee.

On February 7, the Kazakh police informed that it had detained a 38-year-old
resident of Bostandyk village on suspicion of murder. He was detained across the
border in Uzbekistan and subsequently extradited to Kazakhstan. Eurasianet.org
was also reporting that the Kazakhstan authorities were blocking reports of the
ethnic clash, in a sign of sensitivities in Astana over friction between two of
the country's 140 ethnic groups.

Tajiks migrated to southern Kazakhstan in the 1930s. At present, according to
official data, the Tajik population in Kazakhstan is estimated at 60,000 people.
At least 5,000-7,000 live in the villages Bostandyk and Yntymak in Saryagash
District.

The recent clash was the second such case of ethnic riots in Kazakhstan in the
past half a year. During the summer, fights and scuffles broke out between Uzbek
and Kazakh nationals in southern Kazakhstan. Both cases show that the
decades-long Kazakh official policy of promoting inter-ethnic peace is failing.
The risk of further inter-ethnic clashes is set to grow as the economic
situation continues to deteriorate and the issue of who will succeed President
Nursultan Nazarbayev looms. This poses a big challenge for the Kazakh
government, which is afraid that any signs of internal instability might be seen
as an opportunity by Russia to exert greater political pressure over Kazakhstan.




LOAD-DATE: February 09, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday

Terrorism, violence risk subsides in Central Asia, London-based consultancy
claims

LENGTH: 932  words


The risk of terrorism and violence has decreased in Central Asia after countries
bordering Afghanistan beefed up controls on their frontiers, but the emergence
and spread of Islamic State elements in Afghanistan and continuing instability
there pose a continuing threat of terrorism to the whole the region, according
to Aon Risks Solutions, a London-based risk management and solutions
consultancy. Meanwhile, in the Caucasus where there are "frozen" conflicts, a
risk of escalation persists, especially in the Nagorno-Karabakh region where
Azerbaijani and Armenian troops regularly exchange fire.

Central Asia

"In Central Asia, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, which all share a
border with Afghanistan, have implemented border control measures in an attempt
to enhance their security," the consultancy says in its "2015 Terrorism and
Political Violence Risk Map" report. "The emergence of Islamic State elements in
Afghanistan and the ongoing security crisis in that country means that regional
terrorism remains a threat albeit one that is contained."

The report notes that both the US and Russia have provided military assistance
to Central Asian states to improve their border controls and there were no
"significant" terrorist attacks in any of the Central Asian states in 2014.
"[T]he only countries where we currently maintain a terrorism peril are
Turkmenistan and Tajikistan," it says. "Kyrgyzstan retains a riots, strikes and
civil commotion peril due to sporadic protests and ethnic tensions in the south,
although nothing comparable to the level of the 2010 revolution."

On Kazakhstan, which re-elected President Nursultan Nazarbayev with a 98% of the
vote on a 95% turnout, the report says: "the political situation remains stable
in the region with no sign of large-scale strike in Kazakhstan". The report
doesn't specify, however, what kind of strike is expected to hit the country -
an oil strike like in the western oil town of Zhanaozen where clashes between
striking oil workers and security forces claimed at least 15 lives in December
2011; or a terrorist strike like those that hit the country in 2011 and 2012,
killing dozens.

Aon doesn't explain the methodology for its terrorism risk report, but it says
its map measures the risk of political violence based on three "icons"
indicating the forms of political violence that are likely to be encountered:
terrorism and sabotage; strikes, riots, civil commotion and malicious damage;
and political insurrection, revolution, rebellion, mutiny, coup d'etat, war and
civil war.

Nor does the report mention hundreds of Central Asian nationals fighting in
Syria and Iraq on the side of IS who local authorities regard as a threat to
national security. Kazakhstan's National Security Committee said in November
that 300 Kazakh nationals, half of them women, were fighting for IS. And
according to Kyrgyz security services, 326 Kyrgyz nationals, including 49 women
and 20 minors, were fighting for IS, which the country banned as a terrorist
organisation.

The Brussels-based International Crisis Group (ICG) estimates the number of
Central Asian nationals in the ranks of IS at between 2,000 and 4,000. "Ethnic
Uzbeks, including citizens of Uzbekistan, are most numerous among the Central
Asians with the Islamic State, but Kyrgyz, Kazakhs, Turkmen and Tajiks are also
well represented. Some are recruited at home; others are radicalised abroad,
often as migrant workers," the ICG says in its "Syria Calling: Radicalisation in
Central Asia" briefing in January. "The appeal of jihadism in the region is also
rooted in an unfulfilled desire for political and social change. Rich or poor,
educated or not, young or mature, male or female, there is no single profile of
an IS supporter, but fatigue with social and political circumstances is an
important linking thread."

That Uzbekistan scored better than Kazakhstan in Aon's report also raises
questions about its methodology despite the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan's
declared goals of establishing an Islamic state in Central Asia's most populous
country. "Uzbekistan is particularly exposed. Frustrated and excluded, people
who would not have considered fighting with the longer-established Islamic
Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) or the Taliban in Afghanistan perceive the Islamic
State as the creator of a novel and ordained political order," the ICG says.

Caucasus

In Georgia, the Russian military maintains a presence in the separatist regions
and looks likely to continue doing so into the coming years, the report says.
"The attempt of the Georgian government to normalise relations with Russia
despite its military presence in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, has led the
opposition to carry out protests in Tbilisi." At the same time, "none of the
protests turned violent and Georgia proved in 2012 that it could hold a peaceful
change of government through democratic elections."

Aon maintains that despite the conflicts in the Caucasus being "frozen" and
"stable" over the past few years, "a risk of escalation remains". "In the
Nagorno-Karabakh enclave, a region in Azerbaijan occupied by Armenia, there are
no peacekeeping forces separating the Azeri and Armenian forces and cross border
incidents, mostly sniper fire, occur regularly," it says.

"Azerbaijan has successfully suppressed dissent through the imprisonment of
opposition figures. The government is likely to continue doing so before the
upcoming European Games in Baku this summer," Aon says of Azerbaijan, where
strongman President Ilham Aliyev's rule is becoming increasingly harsh and
intolerant of dissent.


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Poland Today

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday

Poland's Independence Day marked by Warsaw riots

LENGTH: 442  words


Poland's Independence Day celebrations on November 11 were marked with what is
by-now almost traditional rioting by nationalist groups in Warsaw. Despite
detaining close to 300, police stressed that the number of incidents was lower
than last year.

Official celebrations of Independence Day in Warsaw, featuring President
Bronislaw Komorowski and PM Ewa Kopacz ended with a "Together for Independence"
march. Police monitored around 500 marches and demonstrations around the
country, with the vast majority peaceful. However, as is now a ritual,
right-wing groups clashed with police in the capital, ending with 276 people
detained.

Organised by nationalist groups, the afternoon march in Warsaw was registered as
an event for 50,000. However, the route was changed after last year's march,
during which 74 were detained, saw a rainbow installation in a central square
set on fire and attacks on the Russian embassy.

The start of the march had appeared noisy but peaceful, with participants
restricting themselves to chants against the EU. However, organisers claim that
unknown groups, thought to be from the extremist far-right, joined the column
and broke away to attack police using flares and rocks after crossing the
Vistula river.

Some media reports note that the march's own security forces attempted to pacify
the situation. Several dozen were injured, including 23 police officers. Police
used water cannon and fired rubber bullets into the air in a bid to disperse
hundreds of masked men. Those arrested face a jail sentence of up to three
years.

Poland's recent economic struggles have only encouraged a backlash from
conservative and far-right groups. In particular, the traditional strength of
the Catholic Church has stoked oppositon to liberal ideals surrounding abortion
and gay rights, although nationalists also see Russia as a target.

The riots come less than a week before local elections, during which Kopacz will
face the first test at the ballot box for the ruling Civic Platform (PO) for
some years. Support for the populist, conservative oppositon PiS has grown
through the economic slowdown that hit the country last year, while Kopacz
replaced PO heavywieght Donald Tusk recently. The former PM had struggled, ahead
of his appointment as President of the European Council, to reign in a
conservative right-wing split in the centre-right liberal PO.

November 11, 1918 is the symbolic date of Poland's regaining independence after
123 years of partitions, as World War I ended. However, it took Poland another
two years of fight (including most notably a war with Soviet Russia) before its
borders were established and made safe.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              July 8, 2013 Monday

Protesters clash with riot police in Istanbul, ruling AKP still leads in public
opinion surveys.

LENGTH: 240  words


Around 4,000 protesters tried to enter Gezi Park in Istanbul on Saturday but the
riot police dispersed the crowd with tear gas and water cannons. The clashes
between the protesters and police around Istanbul's Taksim Square lasted for a
few hours and the police made several arrests. Even though past weeks' massive
protests have died down, the protesters still occasionally confront the police.
Authorities said over the weekend that Gezi Park would reopen to the public on
Monday.

Meanwhile a new post-Gezi Park protests poll showed that the ruling AKP still
enjoys a strong public support, well ahead of its rivals. 50.2% of the surveyed
said in a public opinion survey conducted by polling agency Genar, they would
vote for the AKP in general elections while 50.8% said they would vote for AKP
candidates in local elections. 27.1% of the polled said in the same survey that
they would vote for the main opposition centre-left CHP in general elections and
27% said they would support CHP candidates in local elections.

Several post-Gezi polls have been released by polling agencies with very
different results. ORC estimated the public support for the AKP at 44.2%,
Konsensus said the AKP's approval rating was 47%, Metropoll estimated the public
support for the AKP at 35%, another polling agency Pollmark put the figure at
51%, Andy-Ar's estimate was 48.8%, and according to a survey by ANAR the public
support for the ruling party was 49%.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - Asia Today

                              July 1, 2014 Tuesday

Vietnam's GDP expands 5.18% in H1/2014

LENGTH: 74  words


Vietnam's gross domestic product (GDP) expanded 5.18% in the first half of this
year, while it was posted at 4.9% during the same period last year.  The
nation's economic growth picked up during the first half of the year, indicating
that effects of anti-Chinese riots were not as bad as feared.

The country was hit by deadly riots in May after China moved an oil rig into
waters claimed by Vietnam, following unrest in May triggered by the protests.


LOAD-DATE: July 01, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 10, 2014 Friday

Turkey's Kurdish dilemma - bne

LENGTH: 854  words


David O'Byrne in Istanbul

The riots that erupted in cities across Turkey October 7-9 have left as many as
24 dead and presented a serious challenge for the just one-month-old government
of Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, which is paying the price for Turkey's
decades-long failure to address the needs and aspirations of the country's
estimated 11m-14m ethnic Kurds.

Worst affected have been cities in Turkey's predominantly Kurdish-populated
southeast regions, much of which has been placed under emergency dusk to dawn
curfew, with serious clashes also reported in Turkey's main western cities of
Istanbul and Ankara.

The immediate trigger for the unrest has been the siege of the predominantly
Kurdish Syrian town of Kobani by forces of the Islamic State (IS) movement,
which has caused around 150,000 Kurds from northern Syria to flee across the
border to Turkey, prompting fears of an impending massacre of those remaining.

These fears have been lent greater magnitude by the growing perception that
while Turkey has significant numbers of troops and heavy weaponry deployed just
a few kilometres away on the border, Ankara will not intervene because it
perceives the existing Kurdish-controlled enclave to be a greater threat than
one controlled by the non-Kurdish Sunni Islamist extremists of IS.

"They are opposed to the creation of a de-facto Kurdish state in Syria and they
are happy that IS is taking on the Kurds," claims Cengiz Aktar, professor of
Political Science and senior scholar at Istanbul Policy Centre, pointing out
that the Kurdish-controlled region in north Syria has acted as beacon for
Kurdish separatists in Turkey.

Turkey has issued an open call to the West to help establish a buffer zone
within Syria to help protect the Kurds there. However, with the Western powers
committed to not sending in ground troops and the Syrian Kurds opposed to
Turkish troops entering Syrian territory, it is far from clear how such a safe
haven could be created.

What is clear is that Turkey is opposed to acting alone. "It's unrealistic to
expect Turkey to launch a cross-border operation single handed," said Turkish
Foreign minister Mevlut Cavusoglu following a meeting with Nato
Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on October 9.

Roots of conflict

While the situation in Kobani is the trigger for the unrest in Turkey, the root
cause is Turkey's continuing failure to address the needs and aspirations of the
country's estimated 11m-14m ethnic Kurds, many of whom openly support the
militant group PKK. Proscribed as a terrorist organisation by the US and EU, as
well as in Turkey itself, the PKK has been for the past 30 years fighting for
the creation of a Kurdish state in southeast Turkey, launching attacks from the
Kurdish enclave in northern Iraq, and more recently northern Syria.

Those attacks ended 18 months ago with the brokering of a ceasefire between
Ankara and the PKK, on the back of the Kurdish militant group moderating its
demands to more cultural and linguistic rights for Turkey's Kurds and promises
by then Turkish prime minister, now president, Tayyip Erdogan of a "new deal"
for Turkey's Kurds.

Since then, though, no progress has been reported, with PKK field commander
Cemil Bayik warning in a media interview in September that the group might
resume its armed struggle, pointing to both Ankara's failure to deliver on its
promises, and its failure to address the rise of IS in Syria.

Clearly Ankara faces a dilemma: Giving support and arms to the Kurds in northern
Syria to defend themselves against IS risks strengthening the PKK, which could
then recommence its attacks in Turkey, destroying what remains of the peace
process. But not supporting them risks further civil unrest in Turkey, which
would also risk destroying the peace process.

Clearly too it's a dilemma that Ankara has so far failed to grasp the
implications of, apparently viewing the possible fall of Kobani as an
opportunity for the removal of the PYD, and by extension the PKK, from Turkey's
southern border, rather than an opportunity to further enhance the peace
process. "If the Kurdish enclaves in Syria collapse, then the peace process in
Turkey will not be able to continue," warns Cengiz Aktar, explaining that the
effect of IS seizing Kobani could spell the end of hopes for any lasting
agreement with Turkey's Kurds.

A risk apparently not lost on Turkey's own Kurdish politicians, with Selahattin
Demirtas, co-chairman of Turkey's main Kurdish political party the Democratic
Peoples' Party (HDP), warning protestors in Turkey of the dangers of provoking
further conflict.

President Erdogan, however, in his first public statement on the riots took a
less conciliatory line, choosing to blame the protests on groups aimed at
undermining the peace process. "Our state will combat violence, vandalism and
plundering," he warned, in a comment hardly calculated to convince protesters
that his government is committed to a peace process that he himself instigated.

Nor one to offer much comfort to the estimated 150,000 plus Kurdish refugees
from Syria camped on the Turkish-Syrian border within earshot of gunfire from
Kobani.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            December 14, 2015 Monday

Two killed in clashes with police in Turkey's south-eastern city of Diyarbakir

LENGTH: 222  words


Two protesters were shot dead in the mainly Kurdish city of Diyarbakir in
Turkey's south east on December 14, when thousands of people gathered to
denounce a curfew in the city's Sur district and clashed with riot police, the
Hurriyet daily news reported on December 14.

The government has imposed days long curfews in a number of towns in the south
eastern provinces since the fragile with peace talks with the Kurdistan Workers'
Party (PKK) collapsed in July. The curfew in Diyarbakir's Sur district was
declared more than 10 days ago. The Kurdish party HDP called for a rally on
December 14 to denounce the curfew. Students boycotted schools, shops and
business were closed in protest.

The governor of the city declared the rally illegal and riot police dispersed
the crowd with water cannon and tear gas.

Hundreds of security officers and PKK militants have been killed since July. The
PKK had declared a unilateral truce on October 10 until the November 1
elections. But, the Kurdish group tore up the ceasefire on November 6.

There is no sign yet whether the government is ready or willing to relaunch the
peace talks with the militant group. The fight against the PKK will continue
until they lay down and bury their arms, and until the last terrorist leaves the
country or surrender, said President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in October.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               December 10, 2013

Police dismantles street barricades in Kyiv.

LENGTH: 388  words


Ukrainian riot police dismantled street barricades near the parliament and
presidential administration building driving the protestors back to Kyiv's
Independence square. Police had also removed barricades erected near the
government headquarters. According to Ukrainian online television station
Hromadske.tv around 10 people were injured in the operation. According to
various media sources somewhere from 400 to 2,000 Interior Ministry troops and
riot police officers were involved in the operation. There were also reports
that on Monday armed riot troops broke into the offices of a top Ukrainian
opposition party in Kyiv and seized its servers. Around 3,000 protestors remain
in Kyiv's main square as of afternoon Tuesday.

During last week protesters in Kyiv barricaded a number of important state
buildings, demanding snap elections and resignation of president Yanukovych.
Ukraine's general prosecutor urged the demonstrators to take down barricades,
cautioning that those who failed to do so would be punished.

After the round table with former presidents that took place on Tuesday Dec 10,
the first Ukrainian president Leonid Kravchuk announced that there is an
agreement with the EU, according to which, after the fulfillment of certain
conditions, Ukraine will sign an association agreement with the EU in March
2014.

In addition, Kravchuk stated that Yanukovych promised to solve the issue
concerning detainees arrested during mass rallies in Kyiv during Nov 30-Dec 1.
He underlined that investigative actions on case will continue, but people will
not be imprisoned. Yanukovych also voiced support for roundtable talks with the
opposition.

We believe that most likely the opposition will work out some sort of a
compromise together with PM Mykola Azarov and the president.  Structural
reshuffles will be made and several key member of government will have to
resign. The opposition, including All Ukrainian Union Fatherland (BYuT),
Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform (UDAR) and All-Ukrainian Union
"Svoboda", is unlikely to revive the EU deal ahead of the early-2015
presidential elections. In order to resolve and calm down the situation in
Ukraine, the opposition and the government need to agree on a deal outlining a
clear plan for political reform, although at the moment this seems like a
difficult task.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                           December 10, 2013 Tuesday

Ukrainian police dismantles street barricades in Kyiv.

LENGTH: 388  words


Ukrainian riot police dismantled street barricades near the parliament and
presidential administration building driving the protestors back to Kyiv's
Independence square. Police had also removed barricades erected near the
government headquarters. According to Ukrainian online television station
Hromadske.tv around 10 people were injured in the operation. According to
various media sources somewhere from 400 to 2,000 Interior Ministry troops and
riot police officers were involved in the operation. There were also reports
that on Monday armed riot troops broke into the offices of a top Ukrainian
opposition party in Kyiv and seized its servers. Around 3,000 protestors remain
in Kyiv's main square as of afternoon Tuesday.

During last week protesters in Kyiv barricaded a number of important state
buildings, demanding snap elections and resignation of president Yanukovych.
Ukraine's general prosecutor urged the demonstrators to take down barricades,
cautioning that those who failed to do so would be punished.

After the round table with former presidents that took place on Tuesday Dec 10,
the first Ukrainian president Leonid Kravchuk announced that there is an
agreement with the EU, according to which, after the fulfillment of certain
conditions, Ukraine will sign an association agreement with the EU in March
2014.

In addition, Kravchuk stated that Yanukovych promised to solve the issue
concerning detainees arrested during mass rallies in Kyiv during Nov 30-Dec 1.
He underlined that investigative actions on case will continue, but people will
not be imprisoned. Yanukovych also voiced support for roundtable talks with the
opposition.

We believe that most likely the opposition will work out some sort of a
compromise together with PM Mykola Azarov and the president.  Structural
reshuffles will be made and several key member of government will have to
resign. The opposition, including All Ukrainian Union Fatherland (BYuT),
Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform (UDAR) and All-Ukrainian Union
"Svoboda", is unlikely to revive the EU deal ahead of the early-2015
presidential elections. In order to resolve and calm down the situation in
Ukraine, the opposition and the government need to agree on a deal outlining a
clear plan for political reform, although at the moment this seems like a
difficult task.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                January 22, 2014

Two confirmed dead in Ukraine's clashes.

LENGTH: 237  words


The Prosecutor General's Office confirms that two men have died in Kyiv because
of gunshot wounds, bringing the number to three people killed in overnight
violence. The statement reads that bodies of two men were found in the library
of the National Academy of Science. Police officers arrived there in the
morning. They found in the hall of the library a dead body of a man with gunshot
wounds (head and body). The police officers also found another man with gunshot
wounds. He was alive but unconscious. The man died later however. A third person
died because of a fall from the top of the Dynamo football stadium near where
the violent protests are taking place.

Clashes between the riot police and protesters renewed on Hrushevskoho Street in
the center of Kyiv at the noon on January 22 when police began to push
protesters from the barricades. Protesters threw stones at police while soldiers
of the Berkut riot police unit threw stun grenades in the crowd. Close to 1,000
protesters participate in the clashes.

EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton on Wednesday urged "an immediate end"
to the escalating violence in Ukraine following reports of the first fatalities
in two months of pro-EU protests. Moreover, Ashton added that she is extremely
concerned about attacks on journalists and reports of missing persons. She
called on the government and the opposition to begin "a genuine dialogue at the
highest level".


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                Intellinews - Turkey Sectors and Companies Today

                           November 25, 2014 Tuesday

Katmerciler wins tender to supply Turkish police with 50 riot control water
cannon vehicles

LENGTH: 179  words


Katmerciler Arac Ustu Ekipman said on November 24 in a filing with the Bourse
Istanbul that it won a tender held by Turkey's general directorate of security
affairs with an offer of (EURO)11.8mn to provide 50 units of riot control
armored vehicles with water cannons, known as TOMA in Turkey.

Five companies had placed bids in the tender. Katmerciler has already signed the
final agreement with the security authority, Katmerciler said in a filing with
the Stock Exchange.

Last month, Katmerciler said that it also won a tender held by the general
directorate of security affairs with an offer of (EURO)13.7mn to provide 65
units of TOMAs.

Turkish police often use TOMAs to disperse protestors. Shares of Katmerciler
rose sharply last month after PM Ahmet Davutoglu said the government would buy
10 new TOMAs for each vehicle destroyed. Davutoglu's comments came shortly after
protesters damaged TOMAs during violent street protests earlier last month.

The company, founded by a former lawmaker from the ruling AKP, also produces
fire trucks, hydraulic garbage trucks and tippers.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                   Intellinews - Bosnia and Herzegovina Today

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday

Most Bosnians support ongoing protests but only half believe they will yield
results - poll

LENGTH: 321  words


Most Bosnians support the ongoing protests, taking place mainly in the country's
Muslim-Croat Federation against poverty, corruption and the incumbent political
elite, a recent survey showed, but if the demonstrations turn violent again the
support will likely drop to below 50%, news service Klix.ba reported on Feb 12.

An opinion poll of marketing agency Valicon showed that 88% of the citizens in
both Bosnian entities - the Federation and the Serb Republic, are in favour of
the protests sparkled by the people's great discontent with their harsh economic
and social state. In particular, a total of 93% of the polled in the Federation
and 78% in the Republic support the demonstrations.

Still, only half of the survey participants believe they will result in any
significant change.

The poll results generally explain the main reasons for the events on the
streets across the Federation in the past week. According to it, as much as 90%
of the people are unhappy with the society they live in. More than half consider
the country "is going into the wrong direction", while a third think it is in a
standstill.

The survey also shows that most of its participants (60%) see the protests as a
revolt against the general state of affairs in the society. Around 20% consider
them as a riot against the governing political parties and 13% characterise them
as a riot against all political parties. The number of citizens who describe the
protects as an uprising against corruption and bad privatisation is the
smallest.

When asked to respond to the statement - "If the violence is the only way
towards change, it is better not to change anything." - half of the participants
said they do not agree with the statement, while nearly a third said they agree
with it. This suggests that in case of new violent outbreaks, the public support
will sharply drop.

The survey was conducted among 525 people of 18 to 65 years of age on Feb 10-11.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Christian Science Monitor

                            August 10, 2009, Monday

Crowded cells, racial tensions stoke California prison riot

BYLINE: Daniel B. Wood Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor

SECTION: USA; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: Los Angeles


A riot that injured almost 200 inmates at a prison in Chino, 40 miles east of
Los Angeles, was reportedly sparked by racial tensions between blacks and Latino
inmates, but experts say overcrowded conditions are what probably fanned the
flames into violence.

The melee broke out around 8:20 p.m. Saturday, among about 1,300 of the prison's
5,900 inmates housed at the California Institution for Men in military-style,
wooden barracks designed to hold 3,000 people. Black and Latino prisoners
barricaded themselves in one corner of the barracks and used improvised weapons
such as pipes and glass to beat and stab one another. A dormitory was burned and
55 inmates were seriously injured in the incident.

The riot comes less than two weeks after a three-judge federal panel ordered
California to come up with a plan within 45 days to reduce prison population by
40,000 over two years.

"If ever there was a situation that proves this was a right decision, this riot
is it," says Barry Krisberg, president of the National Council on Crime and
Delinquency in Oakland, Calif. He says that overcrowding - besides jamming two
or three inmates in spaces intended for one - takes away gymnasium space and
classrooms dedicated to programs specifically aimed at easing tensions within
prisons.

Managing racial tension

Officials said Monday that race may have been a factor in the incident and that
1,100 inmates would be moved to other facilities. California began integrating
its prison cells a year ago, though Chino has reportedly not yet been
integrated. The state's prison gang culture is entrenched largely along racial
lines.

Mr. Krisberg cautions against jumping to any conclusion about the role of racial
tensions in the riot.

"Other states have managed to integrate prison systems without the huge
potential for violence in California," says Krisberg. "Sure, there is a lot of
racial antagonism in this state, but my suspicion is that racial integration
could be managed if you didn't have this kind of overcrowding."

The state prison system is built to hold 68,000 but currently imprisons 145,000.

To help reduce overcrowding, California needs to rethink its "three strikes
law," which mandates a minimum sentence of 25 years to a life on the third
felony, as well at its parole policies, experts say. The state releases 140,000
prisoners a month, but 80 percent are sent back to prison within six weeks to
two months, often for parole violation technicalities.

"Many of these inmates don't understand the protocol of parole because the
programs to teach them have been dropped to make room for more prisoners," says
Justin Brooks, a California Western School of Law professor who used to teach
such classes in prison.

Training the guards

Professor Brooks points to the disconnect between guards and prisoners as a key
reason for prison riots.

"The US puts its prisons out in the middle of nowhere and hires corrections
officers from the local community, while the facility gets filled with
inner-city minorities. Then we are somehow surprised when there is a cultural
disconnect between those who run the prisons and those who are there," says
Brooks, who has done a comparative study of prisons in the United States and
Britain.

Britain has fewer prison riots than the US, he says, because the officers are
more integrated with the inmate population and thus are able to diffuse daily
issues as they come up.

"California prisons have skinheads and blacks and Mexicans and are subdivided by
street gangs ... so it takes a lot of skill and defensive ability to keep
everybody under control," says Brooks.

Guards are not adequately trained in conflict resolution, but rather in law
enforcement and safety, adds Adrian Pantoja, a specialist in race relations and
urban unrest at Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif.

(c) Copyright 2009. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday

Crowded cells, racial tensions stoke California prison riot;
Violence between black and Latino inmates at the Chino prison near Los Angeles
Saturday left almost 200 men injured.

BYLINE: Daniel B. Wood Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor

LENGTH: 635 words


A riot that injured almost 200 inmates at a prison in Chino, 40 miles east of
Los Angeles, was reportedly sparked by racial tensions between blacks and Latino
inmates, but experts say overcrowded conditions are what probably fanned the
flames into violence. The melee broke out around 8:20 p.m. Saturday, among about
1,300 of the prison's 5,900 inmates housed at the California Institution for Men
in military-style, wooden barracks designed to hold 3,000 people. Black and
Latino prisoners barricaded themselves in one corner of the barracks and used
improvised weapons such as pipes and glass to beat and stab one another. A
dormitory was burned and 55 inmates were seriously injured in the incident.

The riot comes less than two weeks after a three-judge federal panel ordered
California to come up with a plan within 45 days to reduce prison population by
40,000 over two years. "If ever there was a situation that proves this was a
right decision, this riot is it," says Barry Krisberg, president of the National
Council on Crime and Delinquency in Oakland, Calif. He says that overcrowding -
besides jamming two or three inmates in spaces intended for one - takes away
gymnasium space and classrooms dedicated to programs specifically aimed at
easing tensions within prisons. Managing racial tension Officials said Monday
that race may have been a factor in the incident and that 1,100 inmates would be
moved to other facilities. California began integrating its prison cells a year
ago, though Chino has reportedly not yet been integrated. The state's prison
gang culture is entrenched largely along racial lines. Mr. Krisberg cautions
against jumping to any conclusion about the role of racial tensions in the riot.
"Other states have managed to integrate prison systems without the huge
potential for violence in California," says Krisberg. "Sure, there is a lot of
racial antagonism in this state, but my suspicion is that racial integration
could be managed if you didn't have this kind of overcrowding." The state prison
system is built to hold 68,000 but currently imprisons 145,000. To help reduce
overcrowding, California needs to rethink its "three strikes law," which
mandates a minimum sentence of 25 years to a life on the third felony, as well
at its parole policies, experts say. The state releases 140,000 prisoners a
month, but 80 percent are sent back to prison within six weeks to two months,
often for parole violation technicalities. "Many of these inmates don't
understand the protocol of parole because the programs to teach them have been
dropped to make room for more prisoners," says Justin Brooks, a California
Western School of Law professor who used to teach such classes in prison.
Training the guards Professor Brooks points to the disconnect between guards and
prisoners as a key reason for prison riots. "The US puts its prisons out in the
middle of nowhere and hires corrections officers from the local community, while
the facility gets filled with inner-city minorities. Then we are somehow
surprised when there is a cultural disconnect between those who run the prisons
and those who are there," says Brooks, who has done a comparative study of
prisons in the United States and Britain. Britain has fewer prison riots than
the US, he says, because the officers are more integrated with the inmate
population and thus are able to diffuse daily issues as they come up.
"California prisons have skinheads and blacks and Mexicans and are subdivided by
street gangs ... so it takes a lot of skill and defensive ability to keep
everybody under control," says Brooks. Guards are not adequately trained in
conflict resolution, but rather in law enforcement and safety, adds Adrian
Pantoja, a specialist in race relations and urban unrest at Pitzer College in
Claremont, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2009 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Break Up Peaceful Demonstration in Azerbaijan

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1010 words

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan, Nov. 26


Dense formations of riot police officers attacked a peaceful opposition
demonstration here in the Azeri capital on Saturday, beating and chasing away
thousands of unarmed people protesting rigged parliamentary elections earlier
this month.

The lopsided violence, much of it against middle-aged men and women, immediately
dispersed the rally, which had exceeded its legally permitted time by no more
than three minutes.

The demonstrators, supporters of the Azadliq bloc of opposition parties, chanted
''Freedom!'' and, in a message to President Ilham Aliyev, ''Resign!'' until the
police officers silenced them with clubs.

The officers attacked in tight ranks, clubbing those in their path, and beating
and kicking many who fell under the first blows. As people fled, the officers
pursued them, flushing them from courtyards with water cannons mounted on
trucks, and clubbing, punching and swearing at those they could catch.

At least two women were knocked senseless and left behind by the retreating
crowd. The two lay sprawled on the street in a bizarre tableau of lost hats,
discarded shoes and dropped flags as police trucks with water cannons rushed
past.

The United States Embassy here, which sent diplomats to monitor the rally,
denounced the violence and released a statement calling on Azerbaijan to
investigate the brutality.

''The United States Embassy strongly condemns the police violence today,'' the
statement said. ''We deplore the unjustified and unprovoked use of force against
citizens peacefully expressing their right to freedom of assembly.''

The British ambassador, Laurie Bristow, who attended the rally, expressed
disappointment. ''I very much regret that the authorities felt it necessary to
disperse the rally by force,'' he said.

The government of Azerbaijan, a small former Soviet oil state on the Caspian
Sea, is trying to strengthen relations with the West while maintaining the
corrupt and centralized rule of elite clans. It has cooperated with the United
States in counterterrorism efforts and the war in Iraq, and is becoming
fabulously rich with oil.

But elections have proved difficult for Mr. Aliyev and his supporters, who make
public nods toward democracy but have never held a free election. Mr. Aliyev's
father, Heydar, seized power in a coup in the early 1990's, and he himself was
elected in a fraud-tainted vote in 2003, months before his father died.

The government now faces a small but vocal opposition that has been emboldened
by recent bloodless revolutions in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan. And the
country's parliamentary elections, held on Nov. 6, have pushed the repressive
streak of the Aliyev government back into the public light.

International monitors declared that the elections failed to meet democratic
standards, prompting the opposition to hold rallies seeking to have the results
annulled.

Before Saturday, the opposition had demonstrated only within time slots granted
by the government, typically for two or three hours. But on Saturday, with a
two-hour permit set to expire at 5 p.m., it opted to extend its rally in an act
of civil disobedience.

About 4:45 p.m., as about 10,000 demonstrators chanted for a sit-in or for
tents, so they could pitch an encampment similar to that used by the Ukrainian
opposition during the Orange Revolution in 2004, the speaker at the microphone,
Ali Kerimli, leader of the Popular Front Party, told the crowd that if they
wanted to sit down past 5 p.m., he would join them.

He said that if they wanted a sit-in, ''I will sit with you,'' but he made it
clear that they would not try to hold the square all night. At 5 p.m., the
leader of the Liberal Party, Lala Shovkat, called on the police not to use
force. It was too late.

Police commanders, who had posted phalanxes of officers in riot gear around the
square, could be seen talking on their radios.

At 5:03 p.m., without warning or evident provocation, they attacked. One mass of
officers jogged along the edge of the crowd, beating their shields to make an
intimidating rumble. They cut off escape from behind the stage and then rushed
the opposition leaders, swinging batons at those in their way.

Mr. Kerimli was beaten. The stage was swiftly kicked apart by plainclothes
officers.

Simultaneously, formations of riot policemen in the square's center swung into
motion, rushing into the thick of the demonstrators, wielding batons. The air
filled with shouts and cries and the thumps and whacks of clubs striking jackets
and flesh.

The demonstrators had no chance to hold their ground. They gave way and tried to
flee. But with the police attacking from multiple directions, many who fled one
group of officers were driven toward others and beaten anew. Those who fell were
beaten more, and sometimes kicked and punched.

As their ranks collapsed and they were forced down the street, a few of the
demonstrators began throwing stones, and several lime-size chunks of concrete
could be seen falling short of the advancing police lines.

Oruj Zalov, a deputy interior minister, said 15 to 18 demonstrators were
arrested and 21 police officers were injured, including 10 who required
hospitalization. He said about 500 officers participated in the action. His
information could not be immediately confirmed.

Ms. Shovkat said hundreds of the protesters had been injured, including as many
as 300 women. ''Let the world community see what kind of regime we are fighting
-- it's not Ukraine or Georgia, but a government like those in Uzbekistan and
Belarus,'' she said, referring to two of the most repressive post-Soviet states.

She also wondered aloud why the West, which has said it is encouraging democracy
in Muslim countries, has not stood more firmly against Mr. Aliyev, whose
officers have often used force to disband protests in this secular Shiite state.

''Why is freedom and democracy not a top priority in Azerbaijan?'' she said.
''Is it because we are not Christian? Or is it because we have oil?''

Mr. Kerimli said the opposition would try to rally again on Dec. 3.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman lay stunned on a street yesterday in Baku, Azerbaijan,
after police officers broke up a protest against a rigged Nov. 6 election.
(Photo by Justyna Mielnikiewicz/World Picture News, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                                December 1, 2015

Russia hurries to criminalise truckers' demonstrations to stop ongoing protests

LENGTH: 230  words


Faced by a growing mood of insurrection among Russia's truckers over new road
tolls, the State Duma lower house of parliament plans to adopt in the first
reading a draft law that brackets unsanctioned automobile processions,
demonstrations and tent camps with illegal picketing, Vedomosti daily reported
on December 1.

The speedy adoption of the law is linked to government efforts to contain the
growing driver protests over the new taxes by making the planned protest
measures illegal. Automobile processions can turn into spontaneous protests and
riots, the authors of the bill clarify.

The maximum amount for violation of the law is RUB300,000 ($4,500) for a person
and up to RUB1mn  for a legal entity.

Russian introduced a new disputed system of toll collection from trucks heavier
than 12 tons on 15 November. The toll rate for trucks exceeding this weight will
be RUB1.53 per kilometre from February 29, 2016, and RUB3.06 per kilometre from
1 March, 2016.

Russian truckers from 17 regions started local protests after the introduction
of the new fees, and planned to come to Moscow and block the Ring Road around
the capital on November 30, but were prevented from gathering by the
authorities. The coordinators of the protest were detained, trucks from the
regions were not allowed to Moscow, and the few drivers who managed to enter the
capital were unable to stage the protest.


LOAD-DATE: December 04, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Russia Today

                            January 25, 2016 Monday

BOOK REVIEW: Kasparov's prescriptions to hold Russia to account are vague and
idealistic

LENGTH: 1080  words


Chess is a brutal sport, the ultimate zero-sum game. Weaknesses in an opponent
are to be exploited. You never let up, because winning is about gaining a
tactical advantage and demolishing the opponent.

Should that apply to global politics? Garry Kasparov, who knows a thing or two
about winning chess games, thinks so. His new book, "Winter is Coming: Why
Vladimir Putin and the Enemies of the Free World Must Be Stopped", laments the
West's big geopolitical failure of the past 25 years: it had Russia in its grasp
and promptly surrendered the initiative. The Kremlin was on its knees in the
1990s, but weak-willed leaders lacking strategic vision and moral clarity didn't
finish the job. They let the Chekists survive and then thrive. The outcome was
Putinism: the devastation of Russian civil society, the plundering of its
resource wealth, the foreign mischief-making and the assault on the near-abroad.
"Ironically, the roots of Russia's descent back into totalitarianism can be
traced to the West doing too much to respect the legacy of the USSR as a great
power, not too little."

To his credit, Kasparov isn't just writing all this from his pad in Manhattan,
where a less-hazardous career as a promoter of online chess games and other
causes might have been his. He's been roughed up and plucked off the Russian
streets by the OMON riot police and tossed in jail a few times for daring to
join peaceful protests. He set up the United Civil Front, an opposition group
and part of the anti-Putin movement The Other Russia. He's chairman of the Human
Rights Foundation. The Kremlin's tight control of elections has hindered his
political activities in Russia, to say the least. But Kasparov has admirably
ploughed on, rallying pockets of support in a country whose citizens have been
dulled after years of cynical political management and regime-friendly media.

This isn't a book that will shock most Russia-watchers. The crimes of the Putin
era get episodic treatment: Beslan, Nord-Ost, the Kursk sinking, the Chechen
wars and the mysterious apartment bombs that triggered them, the murders of
Boris Nemtsov, Aleksandr Litvinenko, Anna Politkovskaia and death in custody of
Sergei Magnitsky, the Khodorkovsky and Yukos cases, the Georgian war of 2008,
the annexation of Crimea and the Kremlin-backed separatist war in eastern
Ukraine, Medvedev's sham presidency, relentless financial corruption and the
destruction of civil society. All of them are given their due.

But Russia-watchers aren't the book's audience. Kasparov wants to rally a
certain kind of Western politician who shares his craving for black-and-white
policy prescriptions. Putin must be stopped just as the Nazis were. "Adolf
Hitler did not attack Poland in 1939 because the Allies stood up for
Czechoslovakia; they didn't. Hitler did not move into the Sudetenland because
the world protested vigorously at his Austrian Anschluss, but because the
response was so feeble." The West has failed again the same way with Georgia and
Crimea, argues Kasparov.

His reading of history doesn't allow for much complexity. For Kasparov, the Wall
came down and the Soviet Union died because Western leaders like Reagan and
Thatcher willed it and dissidents demanded it. The 1980s oil-price collapse,
crippling Russian export income, and deeper structural failures, aren't part of
the story. He's surely right that Westerners have overestimated Gorbachev's
benevolence. But Kasparov's relentlessly sceptical view of him lacks nuance.

Ditto for Reagan. For Kasparov, the Gipper was a truly heroic, especially his
"moral foreign policy". That's a gift to the "whataboutists", who might remember
the Iran-Contra scandal, the "constructive engagement" of Reagan's government
with apartheid South Africa, his invasion of Grenada, the cosiness with Saddam
in Iraq, and so on.

Kasparov liked some of George W Bush's moral clarity too (except his misreading
of Putin's soul). But he wishes he'd pursued democracy in Russia as actively as
he did in Iraq. That's a startlingly naïve view of the Second Gulf War, not to
mention Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo, the kidnapping and torture of detainees or other
emblems from the War on Terror. Kasparov scarcely seems to understand why all
this might have yielded Barack Obama's subtler diplomacy, including the
wishy-washy "reset" with Russia. Kasparov doesn't think much of US policy on
Iran either, despite the nuclear deal of 2015. For all its passion about human
rights and democracy, the books prescriptive parts feel a bit like they could
have been written in early 2003 not 2015.

Human rights push

In fact, Kasparov is a bit too keen to dredge up past columns from the Wall
Street Journal in which he egged on the neo-cons of that era. A lot of these
references help show the reader that our grandmaster saw many moves ahead. Maybe
he did. But they don't help his narrative, which becomes episodic; or his
argument, which is sometimes confusing. He's all for strong action against
Russia - not the "joke" sanctions of recent years - for human rights to be the
"backbone of policy, including foreign policy". But standing up to Putin "does
not preclude negotiation or trade within certain parameters". So should we keep
buying Russian and gas, or not?

You don't have to be an RT stooge to find Kasparov's comparison of Islamic State
with Putin a bit of a stretch, either. A new Godwin's Law for such nonsense is
surely not far off. The thrust, of course, is that the West must find its mojo
to fight these horrors, wherever they are. But then this crops up: "Symbols
matter in this fight, symbols like Charlie Hebdo and the `Bring Back Our Girls'
campaigns, and photographs of world leaders marching together for free speech."
Clicktivism. Really, Garry? The Nigerian schoolgirls are still missing.

Ultimately, Kasparov's prescriptions are vague and idealistic: better education
and a global magna carta on human rights, which would act as the basis for
foreign policy. No one would disagree with this - probably not even Putin. But
who would write this big charter and who would enforce it? Kasparov is a hero to
many, including this reviewer, but this book is a disappointment. As admirably
passionate in its defence of human rights as it is angry at Putin and the West's
failures, its conclusions are too banal and its speech-making tenor too
simplistic.

"Winter is Coming: Why Vladimir Putin and the Enemies of the Free World Must Be
Stopped", Garry Kasparov, published by Perseus Books Group (2015)


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Kazakh opposition leader Bolat Abilov leaves politics.

LENGTH: 143  words


Bolat Abilov, one of few remaining Kazakh opposition leaders announced he is
quitting politics. Abilov was a head of the Azat (Freedom) party which was in
alliance of OSDP social democrats. The union collapsed earlier this year amid a
scandal.

The decision made by Abilov means that there is no functioning opposition party
in Kazakhstan. After bloody riots in Zhana-Ozen, the authorities put pressure on
Alga! party, jailed its leader Vladimir Kozlov and effectively silent out the
media connected with fugitive banker - Mukhtar Ablyazov, who himself was
recently arrested in France as he is accused of money fraud.

Significantly, although Kazakh opposition was never widely supported by the
society, it played a role of safety valve and allowed for canalizing social
discontent. Lack of opposition, in fact, increases the risk of social unrest in
the country.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: English US

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Australian X-Explorer office attacked in Kyrgyzstan.

LENGTH: 182  words


A crowd of about 200 people attacked the local office of  Australian Z-Explorer
which develops a gold field in southern Kyrgyzstan. This is another conflict
over the privatization of the country's resources.

Z-Explorer is a subsidiary of Manas resources (listed in Australia). The company
discovered the Shambesai deposit in 2010 and the same year received a license to
develop the field. The estimated gold reserves of the field are set at 8.8
tonnes.

In the riots, the crowd ransacked the offices, looted computers and other
equipment and burnt seized documents. Z-Explorer expressed concern over the
incident especially over the participation of some deputies of the local council
in the unlawful actions.

Z-Explorer is another company which is facing problems in operating in
Kyrgyzstan. The country's government is weak and does not control the situation
and eventually is forced to bow to demands voiced by strengthening nationalistic
groups. Thus, the business climate in Kyrgyzstan is becoming extremely hard and
even links to the ruling elite do not guarantee security of business there.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: English US

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            January 20, 2014 Monday

Kazakh government to adopt programme of development of small cities and regions
in Q1.

LENGTH: 131  words


The Kazakh government plans to adopt a programme of development of small cities
and regions. The programme includes additional business support tools to provide
help to first-time entrepreneurs, youth, women entrepreneurs, people with
disabilities and elderly people to run own business. In framework of the
programme, there will be a special conditions set for subsidizing and
guaranteeing projects of entrepreneurs from mono and small towns.

Significantly, the program is a further step in Kazakhstan efforts to boost
productivity and well-being in regions and small towns. The government is
pursuing more socially-oriented policy since bloody riots in Zhana-Ozen in
December 2011. Part of it is reform of self-governance - first direct local
election in villages were held in August 2013.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            February 10, 2014 Monday

Construction workers of Abu Dhabi Plaza in Kazakh Astana start strike over
higher wages.

LENGTH: 179  words


Workers employed by Arabtec at construction of Abu Dhabi Plaza in Astana started
strike demanding higher wages. The workers stated that the employer had been
declaring for 5 months to consider the issue. They also warned that they would
fill their request to the authorities. It remains unclear who organized the
protest but from the vide reports at YouTube it seems to be a grass-root
protests. The workers earn from KZT 60thsd (USD 400) to KZT 120thsd per month.
There were police vehicles present at the site of the protest but no
intervention was seen.

Abu Dhabi Plaza is one of the flagship projects in development of Astana. Total
cost of the project is estimated at USD 1.6bn. Funds are being provided by
United Arab Emirates. The construction works are planned to be completed in
2016.

Kazakhstan has been facing a wave of strikes over low wages since blood riots in
Zhana-Ozen (December 2011). Most of the strikers are successful as the
authorities are afraid of further escalation of protests. This leads to a trend
of rising labor costs driven by social discontent.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            February 16, 2014 Sunday

Unsanctioned meeting takes place after sharp depreciation of Kazakh national
currency.

LENGTH: 247  words


Unsanctioned meeting took place at Republic's Square, in the center of Almaty,
the financial capital of Kazakhstan. The number of participants in the protest
was estimated at maximum 500. The protesters demanded solutions of social
problems and resignation of the Kazakh President and the government. Dozens of
people were detained by the police.

It was the second protest after a sharp depreciation of Kazakhstan's national
currency KZT on Feb 11. On Feb 12, a group of mainly women stormed the office of
Kazakhstan National Bank demanding dismissal of Kairat Kelimbetov, head of the
bank. On Sunday, Feb 16, dozens of people staged another protest in Almaty. Some
people were detained by the police.

The protests so far are small and do not have potential to threat the ruling
elite. Still, the recent events in Almaty as well as a number of small protests
which are being held every month by workers over work conditions indicate a
growing anger among the society. The grievances however cannot be channeled into
a wide protest as Kazakh opposition is divided and rather not respected by the
society.

On the other hand, after the bloody riots in Zhana-Ozen in December 2011, the
authorities are more concerned of the potential protests. Just a day after sharp
depreciation of national currency a convoy of armored vehicles and armored
personnel carriers was seen moving along a road outside Almaty. The official
explanation was that the convoy was heading to the site of mini-drills.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Macedonia Today

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

New threats to stability in Western Balkans appear - bne

LENGTH: 1576  words


Clare Nuttall in Bucharest

A summer of unrest in Macedonia and the ongoing constitutional crisis in Kosovo,
where no government has been appointed since the June elections, have
highlighted the fragile nature of several states in the Western Balkans. Bosnia
& Herzegovina will be the next state to be put to the test as elections approach
in October.

Violent protests broke out in Skopje and other Macedonian towns in July and
August after six ethnic Albanians were sentenced in connection to the
execution-style killings of five ethnic Macedonian fishermen in 2012 - a case
that divided the country's population along ethnic lines. Without support from
the two main political parties representing Macedonia's Albanian minority, the
protests petered out, but ethnically fuelled protests are a frequent occurrence
in Macedonia.

While the Smilkovci Lake killings were an extreme example, violent attacks like
these provide a rallying point for disenfranchised youths from both sides of
Macedonia's ethnic divide, who on a day-to-day basis are struggling with the
same problems of poverty and unemployment. It is a similar situation in other
Southeast European countries: Eurostat data shows that as of 2013 GDP per capita
was just 35% of the EU average in Macedonia, and even lower at 29% in Bosnia and
30% in Albania. Meanwhile, youth unemployment is estimated at over 50% in
Bosnia, Macedonia and Kosovo.

Dissatisfaction with unemployment, poverty and austerity cuts have sparked
protests across Europe. However, in countries like Bulgaria, Greece or Romania
protests have a clear focus on economic grievances, while in the ethnically
split countries of the Western Balkans, even protests that originate in
socioeconomic difficulties take on an ethnic dimension. "The unrest in Macedonia
is really a symptom of the lack of prospects for certain marginal social groups
on both the Macedonia and the Albanian side," says Cvete Koneska, an analyst at
Control Risks Group. "This is a regional or even European phenomenon, but the
difference in Macedonia or Kosovo is that social or political tensions often
acquire ethnic overtones. This makes the protest movements more dangerous
because when nationalist rhetoric is used to mobilise people it raises the
potential for violence."

Unresolved issues

Koneska believes that clashes like those recently seen in Macedonia are also a
sign of unresolved issues relating to the fundamental nature of the state, and
that other states in the region are facing similar problems.

In neighbouring Kosovo an alarming power vacuum and constitutional crisis has
opened up in the country where, more than three months after the June 8
parliament elections, a new government still has not yet been formed. Although
outgoing Prime Minister Hashim Thaci's Democratic Party of Kosovo (PDK) took the
largest share of the vote, a group of opposition parties has united to prevent
the PDK embarking on a third term in office.

Had the transition to a new coalition government gone smoothly, it would have
marked the first democratic handover of power since Kosovo gained independence
in 2008 - a significant milestone for any new state. Instead, the PDK and its
opponents have become mired in a lengthy constitutional battle over the election
of a new parliament speaker, a step that has to be taken before a new government
can be elected by the parliament.

Macedonian Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski is in a better position than Thaci,
since his VMRO-DPMNE party was returned to power with a double victory in the
April parliamentary and presidential elections. However, there are growing
claims about the "Putinisation" of politics and the quality of democracy in
Macedonia - from international observers such as Freedom House as well as the
opposition, which boycotted the new parliament, claiming the election was
rigged.

Gruevski's alliance with the main ethnic Albanian party Democratic Union for
Integration (DUI), and efforts to attract foreign investors, have helped keep a
lid on the interlinked problems of poverty, inequality and ethnic divisions.
However, this has not stopped cracks appearing within the country - as shown
during the July riots - and questions about the durability of the state have not
gone away.

Professor Florian Bieber, director of the Centre for Southeast European Studies
at the University of Graz, wrote in a July paper entitled, "Macedonia on the
Brink", that the country "has often seemed to be teetering on the edge" once
again in recent weeks. "Many of the Macedonian majority feel excluded and
marginalised - especially if they do not support the governing party - but for
Albanians this more readily translates into a general reservation about the
state," Bieber wrote.

Election aftermath

The messy aftermath of the elections in both Macedonia and Kosovo has raised
fears about what will follow the October 12 presidential and parliamentary
elections in Bosnia. Snap elections were called after mass demonstrations in
Sarajevo and other cities in protest over government corruption and high
unemployment.

Flooding that caused an estimated EUR 2bn worth of damage in May resulted in
further deterioration of the economy. On September 18, the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development cut its 2014 growth forecast from 1.8% to just
0.2%. The following day, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said it was
delaying the disbursement of funding for Bosnia.

Hopes that the upcoming election will improve the situation are not high. As in
Kosovo, it may be some time before a new government is formed, given the need to
broker new alliances between parties representing the country's Bosniak, Croat
and Serb populations. As early as May it became evident that the election race
was "narrowing in favour of opposition and smaller parties at the expense of
Bosnia's traditional ruling parties, meaning that the post-election environment
risks becoming increasingly politically confrontational," says a report from IHS
Jane's Intelligence.

Nowhere is this more critical than in the ethnic Serb half of the country,
Republika Srpska, where Milorad Dodik is fighting to hold onto the presidency of
the autonomous republic. Dodik's strategy has been to intensify calls for the
ethnic Serb republic to secede. Recently, Dodik bypassed Sarajevo to reach out
to Moscow independently, striking struck a deal to receive gas imports via
Serbia through the planned South Stream gas pipeline. Dodik also announced he
had lined up a Russian loan of up to USD 700mn in the event of IMF support for
Bosnia falling through.

Joining the crazees

The toxic combination of poverty, extremely high youth unemployment and a
confused sense of national identity is contributing to another problem in the
region. The numbers of young men from the Western Balkans that have joined the
conflict in Syria and Iraq is not known, but hundreds of Albanian, Bosnian,
Kosovan and Macedonian citizens are believed to be fighting in the Middle East.

A report from the Centre for Globalisation looks at the reasons behind the
success that jihadist recruiters have had in Kosovo. It finds that the economy
"seems not to be a decisive factor," though youth unemployment is a definite
contributor. "The lack of opportunities, lack of occupation and simply an excess
of free time are some of the reasons that push young people into the radicals'
arms. Another crucial reason - an identity crisis - is a more complex one.
Kosovo Albanians, or Kosovars, experience trouble with defining who they are...
Religion offers a clear identity and a sense of belonging."

Even more worrying than the departure of citizens from the region to fight
abroad is the potential for them to become a destabilising force within their
home countries should they return. Governments across the region - both from the
majority Muslim countries and from Serbia where citizens have gone to fight in
Ukraine - have responded by passing legislation to criminalise fighting in
foreign conflicts. The sudden upswing in regional security cooperation
highlights how seriously the problem is being taken.

Tackling poverty and unemployment may be the long-term solution. For many years,
entry to the EU has been considered the end-goal for governments in the region,
with hopes this will mean they become stable and ultimately prosperous EU member
states.

However, "The promise of EU membership as a solution for problems in the region
is losing its appeal," Koneska tells bne. "Clearly countries such as Kosovo have
fundamental statehood issues to resolve. In Macedonia too, Macedonians and
Albanians need to have a meaningful discussion as to what kind of state they
want to live in, while in Albania there are deep-rooted problems with
governance, crime and corruption that need to be solved before those countries
become EU members."

While Albania was awarded EU candidate status in June - despite concerns from
several EU governments over the level of crime and corruption - there is no date
in sight for either Bosnia or Kosovo, while Macedonia's passage to the EU
remains blocked by the ongoing dispute with Greece over the country's name.

With states in the region now appearing to backslide, in both political and
economic terms, EU entry seems increasingly far off and hard to achieve. The
loss of this as an incentive to improve could mean future lack of progress;
governments in the region will have to find their own motivations for preventing
ethnic conflicts and tacking poverty.


LOAD-DATE: October 01, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            October 27, 2014 Monday

French court agrees to extradite Kazakh fugitive banker to Russia.

LENGTH: 226  words


French court has agreed to extradite Kazakh fugitive banker Mukhtar Ablyazov to
Russia. Ablyazov run away from Kazakhstan in 2009 and was hiding in Europe.
Among others, he is being accused of embezzlement of USD 5bn from BTA Bank (he
served as head of this bank prior to his run away from the country).

Ablyazov tries to depict himself as the main opposition figure in Kazakhstan
although he does not have support in the Kazakh society.  Given the ongoing
difficult relations between Russia and the West the decision is rather
controversial. Meanwhile, there are speculations that Russia will extradite
Ablyazov to Kazakhstan.

Ablyazov is indeed seen by the Kazakh authorities as enemy no. 1. Kazakh
President seems to be blaming him of sponsoring groups that were involved in
supporting workers striking in Kazakhstan in 2012. The strike ended with bloody
riots in which at least 14 people died.  In past year, Kazakhstan initiated a
chasing over Ablyazov and acquaintances in Europe. It resulted in a scandal over
illegal deportation of Ablyazov's wife and daughter from Italy. We believe that
in case of extradition to Russia, Moscow may try to use Ablyazov as a card in
its political game with Kazakhstan. It must be also mentioned that Ablyazov will
appeal the verdict is reportedly seeking a political asylum in France in order
to delay the extradition.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday

Kazakhstan to allocate $27mn for SMEs development in mono-towns

LENGTH: 138  words


Kazakhstan plans to allocate KZT5bn ($27mn) for the development of SMEs in
mono-towns (towns built around a single industry), Deputy Minister of National
Economy Kairbek Uskenbayev told a meeting of the ruling party Nur Otan's faction
in parliament. He specified that the funds would be allocated under a programme
for the mon-towns development in 2012-2020.

The ministry's support for the SMEs will include subsidies for credits received
by entrepreneurs as well as up to KZT3mn grants for the creation of new
production enterprises. The minister also informed that as of October 1, 427
microcredits worth KZT 79mn and 93 grants worth KZT224mn were allocated under
the programme.

Significantly, Kazakhstan intensified its support for the mono-towns after
bloody riots that happened in the western oil town of Zhanaozen in late 2011.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                             May 13, 2015 Wednesday

Workers in west Kazakhstan go on strike

LENGTH: 182  words


Workers of Kazstroyservis are on strike, Kairat Abusov, the press secretary of
the regional government, informed. He revealed that around 140 workers of the
company did not turn up for the work since May 10. The workers are demanding
higher salaries.

Abusov said that employees of the regional prosecutor's office, inspectorate and
local executive bodies are on the scene. Kazstroyservis is engaged in the
construction of a gas processing plant at the Chinarev field in West Kazakhstan.

Significantly, since the strike in Zhana Ozen ended up in bloody riots in
December 2011, the Kazakh authorities are extremely sensitive to any workers'
protests. The local authorities are active in resolving labour disputes and it
is happening also in the case of Kazstroyservis' workers. Still, the potential
of this kind of disputes is growing, especially in Western Kazakhstan as the oil
and gas sector, which is concentrated in this part of the country, is suffering
heavily from low oil prices. The energy companies are cutting spending by
reducing labour force and sending workers for unpaid holidays.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Kazakhstan sums up results of small-town development programme

LENGTH: 500  words


First Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan Sagintayev had held a meeting on the
development of small towns dependent on a single industrial enterprise in
Kazakhstan. The results provided at the meeting show that progress in solving
the problem of this kind of settlements is slow.

Sagintayev disclosed that KZT48.4bn ((EURO)231mn) had been allocated from the
national budget to support the development programme in small towns in
2012-2014. As part of the programme the state provided stimulus to the
development of small businesses. The measures includes subsidised interest
rates, issuing micro loans and providing grant to the tune of up to KZT3bn. As a
result of the programme 1,380 microloans worth KZT3.644bn were issued and 346
projects worth KZT1.6bn were approved for subsidies. The progress of the
programme in this sphere differed from town to town. The most effecient was in
Stepnogorsk, Aksu, Yekibastuz and Kentau.

At the same time, the results show that the measures aimed at creating new jobs
largely failed. Although it was planned to create 26,000 jobs only 2,700 were
created. In order to create additional employment opportunities, the government
planned to launch 48 projects, of which only 16 were commissioned and six are
operating only for 50% of their capacity. Total financing of such projects as
well as investment in infrastructure (i.e. modernisation of water supply
networks) was planned to the tune of KZT1.1tn but clearly the regional
authorities failed to accommodate the funds.

Kazakhstan has 27 small towns with a total population of 1.5mn people (around 9%
of the country's population). The problem of small towns became a headache for
the authorities after the riots in Zhanaozen claimed the lives of 16 people as a
result of clashes between security forces and protesters. This prompted the
government to tackle the issue in a more serious way but as the results show it
was not effecient.

At present, the development of small towns will be implemented under the
Regional Development Programme by 2020. It is planned to provide KZT16.6bn from
the national budget and KZT 7.7bn from local budgets to implement the plan.
Still, no change in the thinking is expected. While concluding the meeting,
Sagintayev instructed regional governors to take measures to achieve the
appropriate indicators, provided for the current year, and to ensure the full
disbursement of allocated funds to support small and medium-sized businesses.

The problem on the development of small towns illustrates a wider problem of
governance in Kazakhstan. The regional authorities do not understand that
regional development should be based on the analysis of regional potential and
needs of the local population rather than on fulfilling tasks from high on that
are being set based on political considerations (namely to avoid growing social
tensions in  small towns). Commissioning facilities that are loaded only for 50%
of their capacity at most is a good illustration of results for such a strategy.




LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                             July 30, 2015 Thursday

Kazakh average monthly salary amounts to (EURO)600 in Q2

LENGTH: 208  words


The average monthly salary stood at KZT124,227 ((EURO)600) in Kazakhstan in the
second quarter, up by 2.9% in nominal terms and down by 1.4% y/y in real terms.

The highest average salary was observed in the mining sector - KZT250,700,
professional, scientific and technical sphere - KZT229,900, financial and
insurance sector - KZT229,600, while the lowest salary was in the agricultural,
forestry and fishery sector - KZT69,600.

The highest average salary was in oil-rich Mangistau Region - KZT217,300 and the
lowest in Zhambyl  Region - KZT85,200.

The decrease in real wages is a signal of deteriorating living standards in
Kazakhstan. The other worrying factor is decrease in wages in Mangistau Region,
which witnessed bloody riots in December 2011 and where the situation remains
tense. According to the latest data, real wages decreased by 6.6% y/y in the
second quarter of the year in Mangistau Region. In additition, Atyrau Region was
highly affected by drop in wages posting a decline by 11.2% y/y in real terms
but Atyrau does not have serious social problems as Mangistau has. The data show
that Atyrau and Mangistau Regions started to experience negative effects of low
oil prices as their economies is heavily dependent on the oil industry.


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

Kazakhstan's oil-rich Manigstau Region readying for difficult times

LENGTH: 366  words


Mangistau Region, located in the western part of Kazakhstan, is a base of the
oil industry in the country. In 2011, the region witnessed a months-long strike
of oil workers which ended in bloody riots with at least 14 peoples dead.
State-controlled KazMunayGas Exploration & Production's main oil producing asset
Ozenmunaigas is located in this region. As oil prices tumbled in the past year
and there is little hope for the reverse of the downward trend, Mangistau is
nervous about a possible repeat of a labour conflict.

The situation in the region is deteriorating, but the exact scope of the problem
is difficult to estimate due to a lack of more consolidated data. According to
Serikbay Trumov, newly appointed mayor of Aktau, the capital of the region, the
number of registered unemployed increased by 120% y/y to 1,166 people as of July
1, the local website Tumba.kz has reported. At the same time, job centres found
employment for 35.5% out of 1,688 people who were looking for jobs. According to
the mayor, the reason for such a low figure is that some people refuse to take a
job because of low wages while others did not have relevant qualifications or
experience. The mayor did not provide exact numbers explaining what kind of
reasons had prevailed. He added that the unemployed would be offered community
work and the local government had already decided to allocate KZT114mn
((EURO)0.55mn) for this purpose.

A separate statement made by Gulmira Kalmuratova, head of the regional
department for employment and social programmes, gives an idea of how anxious
the regional authorities are. According to Kalmuratova, the regional government
is considering providing compensation for up to two-thirds of sacked workers'
salaries in case of large-scale redundancies. The idea will be debated by local
legislative bodies.

Mangistau is being perceived as one of the most problematic regions in the
country because of high wage claims from the local population and its reported
reluctance to reach compromise. The regional authorities are aware that low oil
prices will lead to layoffs and are looking for remedies, which so far seems to
be temporary options rather than a comprehensive solution.


LOAD-DATE: August 05, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Macedonia Today

                            August 25, 2015 Tuesday

Bulgaria ready to endorse Macedonian support from European institutions over
migrant issue

LENGTH: 160  words


Bulgarian foreign minister Daniel Mitov said that his country is ready to
support the efforts of Macedonia for receiving logistical and financial
assistance from the European institutions to deal with the situation with the
migrant flow, a release of Bulgaria's ministry of foreign affairs informs.

Mitov made this statement while attending a conference in Skopje, where he met,
among others, his Macedonian and Albanian counterparts Nikola Poposki and Ditmir
Bushat

On August 20, the Macedonian government declared the border regions of Gevgelija
in the south and Kumanovo in the north as crisis regions. The decision allowed
the army to become involved and help manage the situation. On August 21, riot
police fired tear gas and stun grenades in an unsuccessful attempt to stem the
migrant inflow.

Since then, however, the situation has normalised as it seems that the
authorities have instead decided to move the migrants through the country as
fast as possible.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           September 18, 2015 Friday

Kazakh leader visits western regions of Kazakhstan

LENGTH: 144  words


Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev has paid visit to Aktobe Region in
Kazakhstan, where he also met governors of neighbouring regions  - Atyrau,
Mangistau and West Kazakhstan. The meeting discussed priority areas in the
regions' development. This included preserving jobs in the current difficult
economic conditions, developing new production facilities and establishing
industrial zones around the region's major mining companies. Nazarbayev noted
the need to diversify the economy.

Western regions' economies are based on oil and mineral industries and therefore
have severely been hit by the low oil prices and have high exposure to social
protests. The visit of Nazarbayev was aimed at demonstrating that the president
was keeping an eye on this part of the country and situations like bloody riots
in in the oil town of Zhanaozen in 2011 should be prevented.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday

KazMunaiGas EP gets new CEO, changes investment plans

LENGTH: 414  words


KazMunaiGas Exploration & Production has appointed a new CEO and amends its
production plans and budget to adapt to low oil prices.

Kurmangazy Iskaziyev became the company's new CEO. He previously held the post
of CEO at Embamunaigas, one of the core production assets of KMG EP. Iskaziyev
was characterised by the head of the board of directors as a manager with
"extensive experience in applying new technologies and increasing production
efficiency". As we reported, the former head of KMG EP resigned amid tax claims
and financial problems.

These factors, aggregated by low oil prices and a weak tenge, have forced the
company to revise its budget for 2015. KMG EP said that in the current budget it
assumed the annual average price of Brent crude at $51 per barrel and average
annual exchange rate of KZT208 per $1.

On the production side, the company increased planned output at Ozenmunaigas by
1% to 5.53mn tonnes and kept unchanged the production target for Embamunaigas at
2.8mn tonnes. Higher output at Ozenmunaigas is planned to be achieved by
production drilling ahead of schedule and additional drilling of 57 new wells.
Production targets at other assets in which KMG EP holds shares were not
changed.

The company revised upwards its supplies to the domestic market from 1.9mn
tonnes to 2.1mn tonnes. The effect of this decision on the budget remains to be
seen as prices of domestic supplies "have yet to be approved by independent
directors". The other issue is that the company will process 0.1mn tonnes of oil
for its own use.

Capital expenditures for 2015 were increased by 12% to KZT106bn ($511mn
according to the exchange rate assumed in the budget - KZT208 per $1). The rise
was explained by expenditures on additional 57 wells.

The new budget demonstrates that KMG EP is seeking ways to keep production at a
steady level despite low oil prices and low profit margins. The reason might be
the importance of the company's activities in Mangistau Region in Kazakhstan,
which is famous for its high protest mood. KMG EP is the sole employer in such
towns as Zhanaozen, which became a scene of bloody riots in December 2011. The
company, controlled by the state-owned KazMunayGas clearly takes into account
its social obligations while drafting its development plan.

KMG EP is among the top three largest oil producers in Kazakhstan. In 2014, the
company produced 12.4mn tonnes of oil. KMG EP's shares are listed on the
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (KASE) and its GDRs on the LSE.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            January 19, 2016 Tuesday

KazMunaiGas E&P fails to obtain tax relief

LENGTH: 344  words


KazMunaiGas Exploration & Production (KMG EP) has failed to obtain a temporary
tax relief for 2015, according to its press release published on January 18. KMG
EP requested tax relief for Ozenmunaigas, a subsidiary that operates in the
Zhanaozen oil fields, a scene of bloody riots that took place in December 2011.
KMG EP expressed disappointment with the decision and declared that it would
continue to apply for tax relief in 2016.

In case of the low oil price, the Kazakh government has the ability to
temporarily reduce mineral extraction tax (MET). However, the denial of the KMG
EP's request shows that the government is desperately looking for budget
revenues. The decision will have a negative impact on the company's finances and
indicates a small probability of the government's support to the company. Given
the troubled history of Zhanaozen, it is likely that the company will remain
under pressure from the government to maintain employment in this area,
regardless operational costs. This may lead to conflict between KMG EP and the
government.

KMG EP asked to reduce MET for Ozenmunaigas to 0.65%, down from the current 13%.
The company explained that it "saw a loss of KZT49.4bn ($252mn) from its
operating activities over the first nine months of 2015. The consolidated profit
of KZT138bn ($703mn) over the said period is largely a result of the foreign
exchange benefit from the low tenge". The company also informed that its
breakeven price for Ozenmunaigas was calculated at $65 per barrel of Brent crude
oil as of September 30 (given the change in macroeconomic environment, it may
vary).

According to the press release, Ozenmunaigas employs almost 14,000 people in
Zhanaozen. KMG EP itself is one of the biggest taxpayers in Kazakhstan and paid
KZT226bn to the state budget in the form of taxes and other levies in
January-September 2015.

KMG EP is among the top three oil producers in Kazakhstan. In 2014, the company
produced 12.4mn tonnes of oil. KMG EP's shares are listed on the Kazakhstan
Stock Exchange (KASE) and its GDRs on the LSE.


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           January 28, 2016 Thursday

KazMunaiGas EP's oil output flat at 12.351mn tonnes in 2015

LENGTH: 263  words


KazMunaiGas Exploration & Production increased oil extraction by 0.2% y/y to
12.351mn tonnes in 2015, the company said in a press release. The increase was
achieved thanks to better output results at the company's main production
assets: Ozenmunaigas and Embamunaigas.

KazMunaiGas EP is a key production subsidiary of national oil and gas company
KazMunayGas. The company has a strategic significance for the Kazakh government
as an oil producer and important employer in Mangistau Region which witnessed
deadly clashes between protesting oil workers and security forces in December
2011. The increase in production at the company's main assets is a result of
political considerations - the company is under pressure to maintain employment
in Zhanaozen, which was a scene of the bloody riots in 2011. The economy of
Zhanaozen is dependent on Ozenmunaigas and therefore KMG EP keeps production at
high level despite high production costs. The company said in early January,
that its breakeven price for Ozenmunaigas oil, which operates the Zhanozen
fields, stood at $65 per barrel as of the end of September, 2015.

According to the press release, Ozenmunaigas produced 5.51mn tonnes, an increase
of 3% y/y. Embamunaigas produced 2.823mn tonnes, same as in 2014. The total
volume of oil produced by these units reached 8.333mn tonnes, up 2% from 2014.

In addition, KMG EP has stakes in Kazgermunai (KGM), CCEL (Karazhanbasmunai) and
PetroKazakhstan (PKI). The company's share in production from CCEL, KGM and PKI
in 2015 amounted to 4.018mn tonnes of oil, a decline of 4% against 2014.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           February 18, 2016 Thursday

Ethnic tensions break out again in southern Kazakhstan

LENGTH: 551  words


The killing of a six-year-old ethnic Kazakh boy by a teenager of Turkish origin
in the southern, densely-populated, ethnically-mixed Zhambyl Region has once
again exposed the government's nervousness at any sign of inter-ethnic unrest.
Authorities have reacted to the conflict by the deployment of the National Guard
and other security forces, despite denying it was an inter-ethnic dispute,
instead describing it as "domestic".

The low price of oil and economic troubles in its major trading partners -
China, Russia and the EU - threaten Kazakhstan with mounting social discontent
as economic growth risks stagnating or even going negative.The last thing
authoritarian President Nursultan Nazarbayev needs now is ethnic conflicts in a
country that is going to the parliamentary polls in a month amid the worst
economic crisis the country has experienced since the late 1990s.

"The situation has normalised... We have the National Guard which has been put
on heightened security," Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet Kasymov commented on the
situation in the village of Buryl where the killing took place. "This is a
domestic murder and the culprit admits it." "It has been established that the
crime was accompanied by a robbery of the slain boy's family which bears a
domestic nature," the local police investigating the murder explained.

On February 16 ethnic Kazakh residents of the village held a rally outside the
suspect's home, calling for the expulsion of his family from the village after
the teenager killed the boy, who had witnessed his attempt to rob his house the
day earlier, local media reported. Police, prosecutors and National Security
Committee forces dispersed the crowd the same day.

The local ethnic Turkish community offered apologies to the family of the slain
boy and pledged financial assistance to prepare the funeral. It also decided to
hand over the house vacated by the suspect's family to the family of the victim.
At the beginning of 2015, ethnic Turks numbered over 8,300, accounting for 9% of
the total population in Bayzakov District where the murder took place.

Kazakh authorities claim credit for the on-the-surface stability in inter-ethnic
relations in the country, a home to some 120 ethnic groups, though this was
achieved largely thanks to an oil-fuelled economic boom in the decade to 2008.
They refuse to recognise such disputes as interethnic, branding them as
"domestic", despite deploying heavily-armed security forces when they break out.

In February 2015, a murder of an ethnic Kazakh by an ethnic Tajik, also in the
south, during a row over money, led to inter-communal riots in the village. In
response to attacks and arsons on ethnic Tajik property, authorities deployed
heavily-armed security personnel and cut off mobile and internet communications
in the area.

Relative economic freedoms and the booming economy had offered the local
population of any ethnic origin an opportunity to become relatively well-off in
recent years. However, social problems and the growing rich-poor divide,
combined with the rapidly falling living standards, have resulted in public
outbursts of anger because the public perceives that corrupt government
authorities, police, prosecutors and courts often allow rich offenders to evade
justice in crimes involving ethnic minorities.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                             July 12, 2016 Tuesday

Kazakhstan charges Russia-linked Kazakh businessman with attempted coup d'etat

LENGTH: 357  words


Kazakhstan's National Security Committee (KNB) has charged Tokhtar Tuleshov, a
wealthy Kazakh businessman known for his close ties with Russia, with an
attempted coup d'etat, the committee told a news conference in Astana on July
11. Tuleshov has also been charged with

Charges brought against Tuleshov, which also include funding a transnational
criminal group and setting up and leading an armed gang, are seen as a sign of
the intensification of the fight for shrinking business interests in Kazakhstan,
which is facing a severe economic crisis due to the low price of oil. The trial
might have also been caused by the businessman's ambitions and influence on
local politics in South Kazakhstan Region.

Tuleshov was arrested along with other suspects in a special operation in
January after the police found firearms and drugs in one of the detainees'
house. In June the KNB accused Tuleshov of devising plans "to create tensions
within the country by organising protests and riots" and blamed him for land
protests that engulfed the country in April and May and for a terror attack in
the western oil city of Aktobe.

Tuleshov, who owns one of Kazakhstan's largest breweries, ran the Kazakh office
of Russia-based Centre for the Analysis of Terrorist Threats. He also advised
the Russian parliament on matters of economic cooperation, religion and
non-governmental organizations.

The KNB said Tuleshov had for a long time maintained contact and offered
financial support to alleged criminal leaders in Uzbekistan and formed "his own
organised crime group with an armed wing" numbering over 90 fighters. The
"bandit" wing of his organised crime group carried out "a number of murders,
kidnappings and assaults" and their "tortures" were filmed on Tuleshov's orders,
the KNB said.

The committee explained that his "bohemian lifestyle" had led to sizeable debts
totalling $200mn to Kazakh commercial banks and criminal leaders. "Precisely in
this period Tuleshov had an idea of violent seizure of power in the country," it
said. The seizure of power would have solved his debt problems and would have
preserved his economic interests, the KNB claimed.


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                              July 29, 2016 Friday

Oil workers strike against impending pay cuts in Western Kazakhstan

LENGTH: 168  words


As many as 700 oil industry workers staged a two-hour strike on July 28 in the
town of Zhanaozen in Western Kazakhstan protesting against impending pay cuts,
RFE/RL's Kazakh Service reported.

Potential for such protests in the country is growing as the oil and gas sector,
which is concentrated in Western Kazakhstan, is suffering heavily from low oil
prices. The energy companies are cutting spending by reducing labour force and
sending workers for unpaid holidays.

The workers were protesting against the Burgylau oilfield service company's plan
to both shorten working hours and cut salaries, the report said. The strike
dispersed after the head of the company Askhat Sariev as well as several trade
union representatives and high-ranking city officials came to the scene to start
negotiations with protesters. The officials promised the workers to hold talks
later to discuss the protesters' demands.

Zhanaozen, located in the Mangistau region, was the scene of a strike that ended
in bloody riots in 2011.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Kazakh court begins trial of businessman charged with attempted coup d'etat

LENGTH: 270  words


Kazakhstan's Astana Military Court began on September 14 the high profile trial
of Kazakh businessman Tokhtar Tuleshov charged with attempting to overthrow the
government, extremism, and illegal weapon possession, according to Kazakh media
reports.

Specific charges brought against Tuleshov include funding a transnational
criminal group and setting up and leading an armed gang. The charges are seen as
a sign of the intensification of the fight for shrinking business interests in
Kazakhstan, which is experiencing the worst crisis since the late 1990s as a
double whammy of economic difficulties in the country's main trading partners
take and low oil prices take its toll. The trial might have also been caused by
the businessman's ambitions and influence on local politics in South Kazakhstan
Region.

Tokhtar Toleshov, chief executive of one of Kazakhstan's largest breweries, was
accused in June by Kazakh security services (KNB) of devising plans "to create
tensions within the country by organising protests and riots" and said he was
the brain and funder of  land protests that engulfed the country in April and
May. Tuleshov is also blamed for a terror attack in the western oil city of
Aktobe.

Tuleshov had run the Kazakh office of a Russia-based organization called the
Center for the Analysis of Terrorist Threats. He had also advised Russia's
parliament on matters of economic cooperation and religion.

Tuleshov has been under arrest on corruption charges since January, when he was
detained along with 24 other suspects. His detention followed a crackdown by
Astana on both pro-Russian and nationalist activists.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Poland This Week

                               February 10, 2015

Tension rising around strike at Polish coal miner JSW

LENGTH: 390  words


Police used water cannon and tear gas on Febraury 9 as violence flared during
strike action by unions at Polish coking coal miner Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa
(JSW).

Trade unions at the EU's largest coking coal producer announced they have
escalated strike action - launched on January 28 - against restructuring plans.
Several thousand miners rallied in front of the company's headquarters, but by
the afternoon the riot police had moved in.

Reports suggest that some of those present were not miners but "hooligans".
Unions asked JSW strikers to wear hard hats and reflective vests to
differentiate themselves from trouble makers, reports Polskie Radio.

The unions demanded talks with JSW head Jaroslaw Zagorowski, although some
increased calls for his resignation. Management held a press conference the same
day during which Zagorowski declared he will not step down.

Rather, he suggested the company is in no mood to compromise. He reported that
strike action has suspended sales to the tune of PLN130mn ((EURO)31mn), as well
as noting production cuts are hurting the company.

JSW has warned that the demands of the unions would disrupt a plan to find
PLN517mn in cost savings. It also continues to insist that no lay-offs or
closures are on the way.

The company has been fighting unions for months over the restructuring. It
recently dissolved labour agreements with trade unions, aiming to cut labour
costs.

Unions are calling for the dismissal of CEO Jaroslaw Zagorowski after he
dissolved the agreements. They also want the company to withdraw plans to fire
nine union representatives responsible for launching protests in January.

Miners around the country have been protesting in recent weeks. The government,
facing an election in the autumn, was forced to climb down on a restructuring
plan for the hard coal industry earlier this month. It had planned to close four
mines down, but now will keep them running.

Warsaw expects the state-controlled coal industry to report losses of PLN1bn
((EURO)0.24bn) in 2014, similar to 2013. Officials have noted recently, however,
that JSW has reported signs of improvement and could switch back into the black
soon.

The huge and inefficient coal sector has been hit hard by the downturn in Europe
and cheap imports from countries such as Russia. In 2013 alone, coal prices in
Poland dropped by 25%.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Poland This Week

                               February 13, 2015

Court rules strike at Polish coal miner JSW illegal

LENGTH: 353  words


A court ruled the strike action at Polish coking coal miner Jastrzebska Spolka
Weglowa (JSW) illegal on February 12. Meanwhile, a government mediator set off
to Silesia to renew negotiations with unions.

, the situation altered again as a local court ruled that the protest is illegal
- a claim upheld by the management of the EU's largest coking coal producer from
the very beginning. Simultaneously,

The Gliwice-based regional court ruled in favour of management, which has
complained that the three-weeks long strike action is illegal. It ordered unions
to refrain from any actions detrimental for the company. JSW's spokeswoman
Katarzyna Jablonska-Bajer claimed the ruling means the court has banned any
continuation of the protest.

The management claimed the timing of the strike action following the union
referendum broke the law. The walkout began on January 28 and protests
restructuring plans.

Several thousand miners rallied once again on February 12 in front of the
company's headquarters, but by the afternoon the riot police had moved in. The
government's plenipotentiary for the coal sector, Wojciech Kowalczyk, then
announced that a mediator is heading for Silesia and was due to take up talks
the same day.

JSW has warned the production cut is hurting the company, and reported that the
strike action has suspended sales to the tune of PLN130mn ((EURO)31mn). It also
warned that the demands of the unions would disrupt a plan to find PLN517mn in
cost savings.

It also continues to insist that no lay-offs or closures are planned. The
company has been fighting unions for months over the restructuring. It recently
dissolved labour agreements with trade unions, aiming to cut labour costs.

Warsaw expects the state-controlled coal industry to report losses of PLN1bn
((EURO)0.24bn) in 2014, similar to 2013. Officials have noted recently, however,
that JSW shows signs of improvement and could switch back into the black soon.

The huge and inefficient coal sector has been hit hard by the downturn in Europe
and cheap imports from countries such as Russia. In 2013 alone, coal prices in
Poland dropped by 25%.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Montenegro Today

                            October 19, 2015 Monday

Six policemen injured at opposition protests in Montenegro - govt

LENGTH: 529  words


One senior police officer was seriously injured, while five other policemen
suffered from light injuries at an unannounced protest gathering on October 18,
organised by the opposition Democratic Front (DF) in the capital Podgorica,
Montenegro' government website informed.

The DF started series of anti-government protests on September 27 and placed
tents in front of the parliament since then. So far, the protests were peaceful
with several thousand participants marching every day and dozens of protesters
staying in the tents since the beginning.

According to the government's statement, the participants in the October 18
public gathering threw stones, burned torches, bottles, metal and other objects
at police officers in an attempt to break through the police cordon and
protective fence near the parliament building and government headquarters.
Several facilities and vehicles in the city centre, including the headquarter of
the private broadcaster PINK M TV, were also damaged. The police detained
several people, suspected of causing property damage.

The leadership of the DF claimed that the violence was provoked by hooligans,
sent by the government.

"[The police officer] was severely injured while protecting the police exactly
from those hooligans that were having the task to provoke riots aiming to
present the peaceful protests as destructive ones," news service CDM quoted DF's
leadership as saying in a statement.

The DF wants the resignation of the current government, the appointment of an
interim cabinet and early elections. DF is a coalition between New Serb
Democracy (NOVA), Movement for Changes (PzP) and Democratic Party of Unity
(DSJ), led by the former diplomat Miodrag Lekic. Its main goal is to overthrow
the ruling Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro (DPS) of Milo
Djukanovic, which is in power since 1991.

The EU delegation to Montenegro issued a statement on October 19, calling on all
concerned parties to respect the law.

"We expect all concerned to show restraint and respect the law. In particular,
we call on all political actors to proceed with a constructive dialogue within
democratic institutions and processes," the EU delegation said in a statement on
its website.

DF has called all opposition parties to join the protests and hoped for their
support, but gained no support. Its MPs left the parliament at the beginning of
the protests and refused any dialogue since then.

Milo Djukanovic was elected for Prime Minister in December 2012 following
general elections in October. Djukanovic's candidacy was proposed by his
Democratic Party of Socialists (DPS). Montenegro's ruling coalition, which
consists of the DPS and the Social Democrats Party (SDP), was returned to power
in the parliamentary elections, but failed to secure an absolute majority in the
81-seat legislature.

In 1991, Djukanovic became the youngest prime minister in Europe at the age of
29. He later held the position of president (between 1998 and 2002) and was
again prime minister from 2003 and 2006 and from 2008 and 2010. Djukanovic was
instrumental in Montenegro's independence movement, which ended the country's
union with Serbia in 2006 in a referendum.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Hungary This Week

                               November 18, 2014

Hungarians back on the streets to call for Orban's head

LENGTH: 569  words


  Thousands rallied across Hungary on November 17 to protest against government
corruption and Budapest's lean towards Moscow. The demonstrations increase the
pressure on Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has made several concessions
recently in the face of mounting criticism.   Calling for the sacking of tax
officials implicated by the US in corruption allegations, and demanding the
government pull back from its close relations with Russia, 10,000 were
reportedly on the streets of the capital. Crowds also gathered in over 20 other
Hungarian cities, as well as at events in London and Berlin on what organisers
called a "Day of Public Outrage".   The rallies continued a series of protests
over the last month or so against Orban and his Fidesz party, which has ruled
Hungary with a constitutional majority in parliament since 2010. The rare
opposition demonstrations were sparked by the government's plans to introduce an
internet tax, with the cause reportedly bringing over 100,000 onto the streets
in late October.    Those demonstrations led Orban to revert to type: he
announced a retreat but was careful to leave the door to the planned levy open.

In rough dealings - with Brussels in particular - over the past four years, the
feisty PM has often proved he is ready to step back to allow for calm. However,
he rarely allows himself to be diverted from his original course.   However,
opponents have announced that they hope to use the momentum from the internet
tax protests to mount a wider challenge to Fidesz. The mainstream political
opposition to Orban is feeble, while unlike the anti-corruption parties
springing up elsewhere in the region, Hungary's new alternative party is the
extreme right Jobbik.   Encouragement   A highly public fight with the US over
corruption and the rule of law has only encouraged the crowds. Six Hungarian
officials have been barred from entering the US over alleged corruption - the
first ever such action against a Nato ally.   Ildiko Vida, head of Hungary's tax
authority (NAV), was amongst them. She was a specific target of the protest,
with the crowd calling for her to be sacked. She denies any wrongdoing. The five
other officials have not been named.    Faced by riot police in front of the
parliament, the crowd carried  banners with slogans including: "We don't pay tax
to criminals". They also chanted "Orban go away!" and "Europe, Europe!",
reported Reuters.   Hungary has been named as a country whose freedom is a
concern by President Obama. While the EU has been expressing concern over
governance in the country for some time, the US pressure was sparked by
Budapest's lean towards Moscow in recent months.    Earlier this year, just days
after Orban met Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and secured increased deliveries from
the Russian gas giant, Hungary announced that it was halting the transit of EU
gas supplies to Ukraine. Miller, meanwhile, came away talking confidently about
South Stream, the 63bn cm pipeline from Russia that the EU is blocking.    A
deal at the start of the year meanwhile tore up an international tender on
expansion of the Paks nuclear plant, handing the contract to Russian state
agency Rosatom. Moscow will lend Budapest (EURO)10bn to fund the project.    In
late July, Orban claimed the West's democratic model was finished. He announced
he is building an "illiberal" democracy with the likes of China and Russia as
models.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            June 26, 2013 Wednesday

EU ambassadors demand transparent investigation into Turkish police crackdown on
protests.

LENGTH: 261  words


Egemen Bagis, the Turkish minister in charge of EU affairs, top police officers
and Ibrahim Kalin, an advisor to PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan, on Tuesday briefed EU
ambassadors on recent unrest and anti-government protests. At the meeting the
Turkish officials presented pictures and other material to show how the protests
turned violent, Hurriyet Daily News reported. Bagis also talked about how
European countries responded to street protests, according to the daily.

However, EU ambassadors told the daily that comparing the Turkish police's
heavy-handed crackdown on peaceful demonstrators to other countries' police
interventions is pointless and not helpful. EU ambassadors also requested
transparency and accountability in the investigation into the Turkish police's
harsh crackdown on civilians. Freedom of assembly and free media are essential
elements of European values and the ambassadors highlighted that these values
have been violated in Turkey, one diplomat told the daily.

On Tuesday, thousands of people gathered in Istanbul's Taksim Square and in
Ankara to protest against the release of a police officer accused of killing of
a 26- year old demonstrator on June 1 in Ankara. Prosecutor released the officer
on the ground that he acted in self-defence. On Saturday, riot police used water
cannon and tear gas to disperse the protestors who gathered in Taksim Square to
commemorate four protesters and a policeman killed in earlier protests. On
Tuesday, the police did not intervene however there were clashes between the
protestors and police in Ankara.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              July 1, 2013 Monday

Thousands hold anti-government demonstration in Istanbul, Kurdish protestors
clash with security forces.

LENGTH: 227  words


Thousands of people gathered in Istanbul's Taksim Square on Saturday to protest
against police crackdown on anti-government demonstrations and the release of a
police officer accused of killing a 26- year old demonstrator on June 1 in
Ankara. Four people have died and thousands have been injured in the
anti-government protests that began on May 31. Protestors also condemned the
death of a demonstrator on Friday in Diyarbakir, in mostly-Kurdish populated
south east. One person was killed and around ten injured in Diyarkabir on Friday
when security forces reportedly opened fire to disperse a group protesting
against the construction of a gendarmerie outpost. There were more protests and
clashes in Diyarbakir on Sunday.

The main Kurdish party BDP has called for marches to pressure the government to
take steps for peace.  The PKK declared a ceasefire in March and started to
withdraw its militants from Turkey in May as part of the peace process. The
wide-spread anti-government protests in Istanbul, Ankara and other cities are
unrelated with recent demonstrations in Turkey's Kurdish-populated southeast but
the demonstrators in Istanbul chanted slogans in solidarity with Kurdish
protestors. There were anti-government protests in the capital Ankara and in the
south eastern town of Mersin over the weekend where the protestors clashed with
riot police.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              July 9, 2013 Tuesday

Turkish police fire tear gas to disperse demonstrators in Istanbul, Washington
says it follows developments.

LENGTH: 167  words


Turkish riot police on Monday fired tear gas and water cannon to prevent
demonstrators from entering Gezi Park in Istanbul's Taksim Square, which has
been the epicentre of the anti-government protests. The governor of Istanbul,
Avni Mutlu, reopened the park to public on Monday but he warned that further
demonstrations would not be allowed. A police crackdown on the environmentalist
in Gezi Park on May 31 had sparked the nationwide massive anti-government
protests.

On Monday, demonstrators gathered around Taksim Square and adjacent the park but
the police intervened, detaining around 40 people. There were clashes between
the police and demonstrators. Meanwhile, at a press briefing in Washington, the
US State Department's spokesperson, Jen Psaki, said, the US had been following
the developments in Turkey very closely. The US administration calls on all
parties to ease tensions and resolve the situation through dialogue and urge all
sides to exercise restraint and avoid violence, Psaki said.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            July 10, 2013 Wednesday

European Commission concerned over recent Istanbul detentions.

LENGTH: 138  words


The European Commission (EC) is concerned at reports of the detention of members
of Taksim Solidarity and other members of the public wishing to exercise their
right to free assembly in Istanbul on Tuesday, EU enlargement commissioner
Stefan Fule said in a statement. It is not clear on what grounds the detentions
have been made, the EC is closely following measures taken by the authorities in
follow up to recent protests, and underline the importance of respect for
fundamental freedoms, Fule added.

Taksim Solidarity is an umbrella group which organised the original Gezi Park
protests. Authorities reopened Gezi Park on Monday but riot police used tear gas
and water cannon on protestors who gathered in the adjacent Taksim Square to
re-enter the park. Police arrested a number of people, including members of
Taksim Solidarity.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

Anti-government protests flare again in several Turkish cities after protester
dies.

LENGTH: 258  words


Anti-government protests in Turkey's several cities, including Istanbul, Ankara
and the country's third largest city Izmir, flared again late Tuesday after the
death of a protestor in the southern city of Antakya on Monday.

Officials said the 22-year old man's death was the result of a fall from a
building during an anti-government protest however it was initially claimed by
some newspapers that he was killed by a police tear gas capsule fired at his
head.

Activist groups called for protests and thousands of people gathered in the main
squares of Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir and Antakya. Police used tear gas and water
cannons to disperse the protesters who clashed with riot police.

Five people were killed, thousands were injured and hundreds of people were
arrested in clashes between protesters and security forces during the
anti-government demonstrations throughout June and early July. The protests
engulfed Turkey's major cities after police cracked down on demonstrators
seeking to save a park in Istanbul.

Last week, university students in Ankara also clashed with police over the local
municipality's road project and small scale demonstrations in support for the
students have held in several cities.

PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan in August vowed to crack down on anti-government
protests if they would flare again.

The demonstrations in June and July represented the biggest challenge to
Erdogan's decade-long rule.

It is difficult to predict if the country would see another wave of
demonstrations as large and violent as the ones in the summer.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            December 30, 2013 Monday

Turkish PM Erdogan still defiant, 3 MPs resign from AKP, protesters clash with
police in Istanbul.

LENGTH: 283  words


Three more lawmakers including the former minister of culture Ertugrul Gunay,
announced their resignations from the ruling AKP on Friday. The high-profile
corruption probe already led to the resignations of three ministers and
comprehensive cabinet reshuffle.

But PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan, facing the most serious challenge to his 11 years
in power, vows to fight what he calls a conspiracy against his government.
Erdogan said over the weekend that graft probe will not be able to topple him.
Meanwhile the Council of State on Friday blocked the government's attempt to
force police to inform their superiors about investigations.

Also on Friday, protesters in Istanbul clashed with riot police. The
demonstration was not as large as the city witnessed last summer when reportedly
around 3mn people took to the streets across the country. Police made dozens of
arrests in Istanbul but no serious injury was reported. There were protests in
other cities.

EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule said in a written statement on Friday
that he has followed developments in Turkey since December 17 with growing
concern. In recent days, the change introduced to the judicial police regulation
has undermined the independence of the judiciary and its capacity to act, Fule
said. The Commissioner urged Turkey to take all the necessary measures to ensure
that allegations of wrongdoing are addressed without discrimination or
preference in a transparent and impartial manner.

Elmar Brok, who chairs the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, and
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier called on the Turkish government
not to intervene in the judiciary process, the Hurriyet Daily News reported.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            February 10, 2014 Monday

Turkish protesters clash with police in Istanbul over internet curbs.

LENGTH: 250  words


Riot police on Saturday used water cannon and tear gas to disperse demonstrators
in Istanbul protesting against new legislation which gives the government more
control over use of the internet.

Several people were injured and arrested during the protest. Despite criticism
from opposition parties, business groups, and the EU, PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan
defended new legislation saying that new regulations do not impose any
censorship, on the contrary they make the internet freer and safer.

European Parliament chief Martin Schulz commented that the legislation
tightening government control is a step back in an already suffocating
environment for media freedom while EU enlargement commissioner Stefan Fule said
public needed more transparency and information, not restrictions. The law is
raising serious concerns and it needs to be revised in line with European
standards, according to European Commission spokesman Peter Stano.

Parliament approved the legislation last week. The legislation allows the
Telecommunications Communication Board to block access to websites without first
seeking a court ruling for privacy violation. The legislation also forces
Internet providers to keep records on Web users' activities for two years and
make them available to authorities when requested.

The government's move to introduce curbs on the internet came after the
corruption scandal broke in December. Pictures and voice records allegedly
related to the corruption scandal have been circulating on the internet.


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           February 11, 2014 Tuesday

EU foreign policy chief, enlargement commissioner meet with Turkish foreign
minister.

LENGTH: 319  words


EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton and enlargement commissioner Stefan
Fule met with foreign minister Ahmet Davutoglu and EU minister Mevlut Cavusoglu
for political dialogue on Monday in Brussels.

They had extensive and productive discussions Fule said, adding that the recent
developments in Turkey were discussed including the internet law, and
independence of judiciary.

It is the Commission's duty to monitor the developments and express concerns
when these are justified and to also offer help and support to ensure
compatibility with EU standards, Fule said. With regard to the internet law, the
Commission agreed to share in writing a number of the concerns identified,
regarding both compatibility with the acquis and EU best practices, Fule stated.

The new internet measures proposed by the government are already fuelling
political tension. The controversial bill has been submitted to President
Abdullah Gul who is under mounting pressure to veto it. The government defends
the new measures, saying the bill is designed to protect privacy. But the
country's opposition says the government wants to cover up corruption
allegations and the bill restricts freedoms. Bar Association Chairman sent Gul a
letter, urging him not to approve the bill. Business confederation TUSIAD also
called for the law to be withdrawn. On Saturday night in Istanbul, riot police
used tear gas and water cannons to disperse demonstrators protesting the new
Internet law.

The legislation allows the Telecommunications Communication Board to block
access to websites without first seeking a court ruling for privacy violation.
The legislation also forces Internet providers to keep records on Web users'
activities for two years and make them available to authorities when requested.
The government prepared the bill after pictures and voice records allegedly
related to the corruption scandal started to circulate on the Internet.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            February 14, 2014 Friday

Turkish President Gul sees problems in controversial internet bill.

LENGTH: 207  words


President Abdullah Gul said on Thursday that there were one or two issues with
the internet bill and he was working on it.

The legislation was submitted to the President's Office earlier this week. Gul
has 10 days to approve or veto the bill. The bill will tighten government
control over the internet, according to opposition parties and government
critics. The bill allows the Telecommunications Communication Board to block
access to websites without first seeking a court ruling for privacy violation.
The bill also forces Internet providers to keep records on Web users' activities
for two years and make them available to authorities when requested. The
government says the bill will protect privacy.

The bill is fuelling political tension and puts Gul at odds with PM Recep Tayyip
Erdogan. Last week, riot police in Istanbul used water cannon and tear gas to
disperse demonstrators protesting against new legislation. Opposition parties,
Turkey's Bar Association, the business group TUSIAD have called on Gul to veto
the bill.

The government introduced the curbs on the internet after the corruption scandal
broke in December. Pictures and voice recordings allegedly related to the
corruption scandal have been circulating on the internet.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            February 24, 2014 Monday

Turkish President expects parliament to pass amendments to internet law this
week.

LENGTH: 325  words


President Abdullah Gul told a group of journalists that he expects ruling
AKP-dominated parliament to debate the amendments to the controversial Internet
law this week.

Despite repeated calls from the opposition and rights group for a veto, Gul
approved the law last week. The President said he signed the law because the
government had pledged certain amendments into the legislation and in order to
give the opportunity for these amendments to be made rapidly. However,
President's image as a more liberal and conciliatory figure than is PM Recep
Tayyip Erdogan has been already tarnished.

The law, in its current form, allows the Telecommunications Communication Board
(TIB) to block access to websites without first seeking a court ruling for
privacy violation and it also forces Internet providers to keep records on web
users' activities for two years and make them available to authorities when
requested. Later, the government proposed amendments which will require TIB to
inform judges about its decision to block access to a web page. Under the new
changes, courts should issue a ruling on TIB's request within 48 hours and
authorities' access to Internet traffic will require a court order.

Meanwhile, riot police on Saturday in Istanbul used tear gas and water cannon to
disperse a crowd protesting the new Internet law. Local media reported that
police arrested more than 20 people. The government says the bill aims to
protect privacy.

Gul has already hinted that he is also likely to sign another controversial
government-sponsored bill that restructures the HSYK (Supreme Board of Judges
and Prosecutors). Parliament recently passed the draft bill after a heated
debate in the general assembly that left three lawmakers from opposition CHP
hospitalised. HSYK appoints judges and prosecutors. The government has
reassigned and purged thousands of police officers, police chiefs and
prosecutors since the corruption probe broke in December.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday

Anti-government protesters clash with police in Istanbul and Ankara.

LENGTH: 276  words


Riot police used tear gas and water cannons in Istanbul and Ankara to disperse
protesters calling on PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan to quit.

Anti-corruption protests were held on Tuesday night, reportedly, in eight other
cities, including the country's third largest city Izmir, but these
demonstrations were not as large as Turkey witnessed last summer. At least five
people were killed and thousands were injured during the anti-government
protests last summer.

The latest protests were staged after a leaked voice recording of alleged
wiretapped conversations between Erdogan and his son emerged Monday night. The
recordings started to circulate on the Internet on Monday. In the leaked
recordings, two people -alleged to be Erdogan and his son Bilal- are heard
discussing on the day of a graft inquiry broke (December 17) how to get rid of
large amount of cash at their home. Erdogan on Tuesday fought back, insisting
the recording is a fake. The PM vowed to punish those responsible.

Opposition parties, CHP and MHP also urged Erdogan to step down while the main
Kurdish party BDP demanded an investigation. The leader of CHP, Kemal
Kilicdaroglu, said on Tuesday that Erdogan should either flee abroad or resign.
Kilicdaroglu also suggested that they had confirmed the authenticity of the
recordings.

PM Erdogan is facing the greatest challenge to his power in 11 years. The PM is
aware that the upcoming elections in March will be decisive. He recently claimed
that if AKP gets around 38% of the votes in the March elections this should be
considered a success. But, corruption allegations will continue to haunt him and
his government if he decides not to quit.


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday

Turkey sees fresh unrests and anti-government protests in several cities.

LENGTH: 218  words


Anti-government protestors clashed with riot police in Istanbul and Ankara over
the death of a 15-year-old boy, Berkin Elvan, who was hit in the head by a
tear-gas canister during demonstrations last summer and had been in a coma for
269 days.

Elvan's death on Tuesday led to protests in 32 cities across the country,
according the daily Hurriyet. Elvan's funeral will take place in Istanbul today
(March 12) and a huge crowd is expected to attend. There may be anti-government
protests and clashes with police during and after the funeral. This is yet
another headache for PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan who has already been battling with
a corruption scandal. Protestors in Turkey's two biggest cities, Istanbul and
Ankara, chanted anti-government slogans, calling for Erdogan's resignation.

Meanwhile, the main opposition party CHP has asked parliament to convene next
week, probably on March 18, to discuss corruption allegations against three
former ministers. The other opposition parties MHP and BDP responded positively
to CHP's call. The only item on the agenda, if parliament convenes, will be the
summaries of proceedings against the former ministers. For the proceedings to be
read out in the general assembly at least 184 deputies should be present. The
CHP has 134 seats, MHP has 52 deputies and BDP has 26.


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday

Turkish police clash with anti-government protesters in Istanbul, Ankara.

LENGTH: 270  words


Fresh clashes erupted on Wednesday in Istanbul and Ankara, Turkey's two biggest
cities, between riot police and anti-government protesters after the funeral of
a teenage boy, Berkin Elvan, who was wounded last summer.

Police used tear gas and water cannons to disperse tens of thousands of people
chanting anti-government slogans. Security forces arrested dozens of people.
There were protests and clashes in other places, including Izmir, the third
biggest city. Turkish media report that one person was killed last night during
a clash between rival groups in Istanbul's Okmeydani district where Berkin
Elvan's family live. The details of this incident remain unclear. Some media
outlets initially claimed that this person was a sympathiser of the AKP while
others said he belonged to a nationalist group. Reportedly firearms were used.
One policeman also died on Wednesday night in the eastern province of Tunceli of
a heart attack, apparently triggered by the heavy use of tear gas, according to
the newspapers.

Street protests are mounting pressure on PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government
which has already suffered from corruption allegations. The situation is tense
and fluid, creating uncertainties. The yield of the benchmark bond climbed to a
four-year high of 11.75% on Wednesday. The stock exchange was up 0.31% d/d and
TRY gained 0.25% d/d against USD.

Erdogan says the upcoming local elections on March 30 are decisive. The PM sees
the March polls as a vote of confidence in his government. Erdogan recently said
he was ready to quit politics if his ruling AKP did not emerge as the winner of
the March elections.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                             March 14, 2014 Friday

Turkish PM Erdogan accuses his opponents of inciting violence.

LENGTH: 260  words


PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan accused the opposition leaders of inciting violence and
he also condemned the anti-government protesters, saying that protests have
nothing to do with democracy.

Erdogan said his opponents, including politicians, media and businesspeople, are
trying to stir up chaos ahead of local elections later this month, the Hurriyet
Daily news reported. Demonstrators, who took to the streets on Wednesday to
mourn a 15-year-old Berlin Elvan who died from injuries suffered in Gezi
protests last year, attacked and destroyed the offices of the ruling AKP,
Erdogan said.

The Hurriyet Daily News reported than two million people joined the
anti-government protests in 53 provinces over two days. On Wednesday, after the
funeral, in Istanbul's Okmeydani district a 22-year-old man was shot dead in an
apparent stand-off between two rival groups. Nurettin Canikli, a senior AKP
official, accused the opposition leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu over the death of the
22-year man. Accoridng to Canikli the man was killed by what he calls the
illegal soldiers of Kilicdaroglu, The circumstances surrounding the Wednesday's
incident still unclear, but the left-wing Revolutionary People's Liberation
Party-Front (DHKP-C) claimed responsibility for the killing.

The deaths of the teenage boy and 22-year old man have fuelled tension and
Turkey is becoming more polarised ahead of the elections. Protesters again
clashed with riot police in Ankara on Thursday with police arresting a number
people and there were clashes with police in Okmeydani, a stronghold of DHKP-C.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Police and protesters clash on anniversary of Gezi, opposition parties win local
election reruns in major cities.

LENGTH: 378  words


Turkish riot police fired tear gas and water cannon at protesters in Istanbul
and the country's other cities on Saturday who were seeking to mark the
anniversary of the Gezi unrests.

Reportedly, more than 100 demonstrators were arrested and a number of protesters
were injured. Sunday's protests were much smaller in scale compared to the
anti-government protests last summer across the nation that posed the biggest
challenge to PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan's decade-long rule. In the run up to the
Gezi anniversary, Erdogan warned that police would do whatever was necessary to
curb protests.

The Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, Nils Muiznieks, condemned
the excessive use of violence by Turkish police on Saturday against
demonstrators and journalists. Saturday's events add to the list of cases in
which the handling of demonstrations in Turkey has raised serious human rights
concerns, Muiznieks said, according to the Hurriyet Daily News.

On a separate note, the opposition candidates won local election reruns on
Sunday in the western town of Yalova and eastern province of Agri, according to
unofficial preliminary results.  Municipal election reruns were held in a total
of 14 provinces after the electoral body cancelled the March 30 election results
due to irregularities. The ruling AKP won in 5 provinces, the main opposition
CHP candidates won in three, nationalist MHP won in three, the main Kurdish
party BDP candidates won in two provinces and a smaller Islamist party SP won in
one province in Sunday's reruns. In closely watched races in the provinces of
Yalova and Agri, opposition candidates secured more votes on Sunday than they
had in March. CHP candidate won in Yalova and in Agri BDP candidate won the
election. All opposition candidates, who won local elections reruns on Sunday,
actually increased their votes compared to the March 30 elections.

Mehmet Ali Sahin, senior figure from the AKP, said on Saturday that Erdogan
would become Turkey's first directly elected president in the August election.
Parliament will change the constitution to give more powers to the President,
Sahin added. Erdogan will serve until 2023, Sahin said. Erdogan is expected to
run for the presidency but has not yet officially announced his candidacy.


LOAD-DATE: June 02, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           October 8, 2014 Wednesday

Turkish government imposes curfew in six cities as at least 10 killed in
anti-ISIS protests.

LENGTH: 371  words


The Turkish government on Sunday imposed curfew in six predominantly Kurdish
cities, including Diyarbakir, as at least 10 people were killed in countrywide
protests.

Turkey's Kurds protest against what they see as Ankara's inaction in defending
the town of Kobane in northern Syria. Islamic State (also known as ISIS) has
besieged Kobane, fighting with the PKK-linked YPG there. The advance of ISIS
prompted protests across Turkey but clashes were intense in Turkey's
south-eastern provinces. Turkey's main Kurdish party HDP had called for street
protests.

The daily Hurriyet reported that 14 people were killed. PKK militants and
members of a radical Islamist group exchanged fire in Diyarbakir, according to
local media. At least eight people were killed in Diyarbakir. Protesters clashed
with riot police in the country's predominantly Kurdish cities, but also in
Istanbul and Ankara. Interior minister Efkan Ala called for an end to the
protests and warned that violence will be met with violence.

The future of the already fragile peace process between the Turkish government
and PKK now is tied to the situation in Kobane, the HDP said. The government is
reluctant to help the Syrian Kurdish group that has been defending Kobane
against ISIS militants. The PKK accuses the Turkish government of supporting
ISIS.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Monday that airstrikes carried out by the
U.S-led coalition would not be enough and there needed to be ground operation.
Erdogan once again called for the establishment of a buffer zone in northern
Syria and a no-fly zone. PM Ahmet Davutoglu also said over the weekend that the
operations should target the Syrian regime.

Creating a buffer zone and a no-fly zone in Syria is still not an active part of
the U.S government's plans, Department of State Spokesperson Jen Psaki said on
Tuesday.

U.S President Barack Obama's special representative in dealing with the ISIS
threat, former Gen. John Allen, and the deputy undersecretary of the Department
of State, Brett McGurk, will hold talks with Turkish officials on October 9-10,
the Hurriyet Daily News reported. The talks aim to determine what roles Turkey
can play in the anti-ISIS coalition, diplomatic sources told the daily.


LOAD-DATE: October 08, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 9, 2014 Thursday

Death toll rises in Kurdish protests in Turkey.

LENGTH: 343  words


Death toll rose to 24 in the protests over the Turkish government's inaction
over Islamic State threat against the Syrian Kurdish town of Kobane, the Turkish
daily Radikal reported.

Militants of YPG, the largest Kurdish armed group in Syria, have been defending
Kobane for more than three weeks. Thousands of Kurds from Kobane have fled to
Turkey after Islamic State (also known as ISIS or ISIL) besieged the town.
Turkey is reluctant to provide military or logistical support to the YPG because
of the group's ties with the PKK.

The government imposed curfew in several predominantly Kurdish cities but the
violent protests continued on Wednesday. According to media reports, Kurdish
protesters also clashed with radical Islamists (known as the Turkish Hezbollah)
in Diyarbakir, the largest city in the country's southeast. The curfew in
Diyarbakir was unforced by troops. Clashes were also reported between protesters
and riot police in Istanbul where there is a sizeable Kurdish community and the
capital Ankara as well as in the country's third largest city Izmir.

Turkey has proposed a buffer zone and no-fly zone in northern Syria but argues
that the main objective of the U.S-led coalition should be the toppling of the
Syrian President Assad. France's President Francois Hollande voiced support for
the Turkish buffer zone proposal while the U.S Secretary of State John Kerry
said on Wednesday said the buffer zone is an idea that has been out there and it
is worth examining. However, Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby told
reporters that the buffer zone is now not on the table as a military option. It
is a topic of continued discussions, Kirby said.

U.S. officials are growing impatient with the Turkish government for refusing to
join the coalition against Islamic State fighters, Reuters reported. There is no
question the U.S. government thinks Turkey can do more, should do more, and that
Turkey is using excuses not to do more, a U.S. official told Reuters, adding
that the U.S has been sending that message very clearly behind the scenes.


LOAD-DATE: October 09, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            February 16, 2015 Monday

PKK-linked group says Turkish government's security bill jeopardises peace
process

LENGTH: 228  words


The internal security package prepared by the Turkish government is jeopardising
the peace talks with the PKK, said PKK-linked umbrella group KCK in a statement
after a meeting in northern Iraq with a delegation of lawmakers from the main
Kurdish party HDP. The statement by KCK came at a time when the government wants
the PKK's jailed leader Abdullah Ocalan to call for an end to armed struggle by
end-March.

With this package the AKP government intends to suppress all the public
opposition and this bill would mean further authoritarianism rather than
democratization and that it was not possible to accept this mind-set, KCK added.



HDP lawmakers travelled to northern Iraq over the weekend and briefed PKK's
field commanders on the peace talks between Ocalan and the government. The
parties involved in the peace talks should have already moved to the formal
negotiation stage but this did not happened, said KCK, adding that non
proceeding with the negotiation process is unacceptable. "The Kurdistan freedom
struggle will from now on aim for the freedom of leader Abdullah Ocalan. We will
step up the struggle for a free Kurdistan", KCK said.

On February 15 and February 16, thousands of Kurdish protesters took to the
streets across southern Turkey, clashing with riot police on the 16th
anniversary of Ocalan's capture, calling for the release of the PKK's leader.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                             April 2, 2015 Thursday

Turkish police kill attacker in shootout at Istanbul headquarters

LENGTH: 451  words


Police killed a woman who was armed with guns and hand grenades in a shootout
outside the police headquarters in Istanbul on April 1, only a day after a
prosecutor and two gunmen were killed in a hostage taking situation at the
Palace of Justice in Istanbul.  The hostage takers and the woman killed outside
the police headquarters are believed to be from the Marxist Revolutionary
People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C), a small group listed as a terrorist
organisation by the U.S and the European Union. The DHKP-C has carried out
similar, but often failed, attacks on security forces in the past.

The female attacker reportedly opened fire on a checkpoint at the police
headquarters, wounding two police officers, and she died in the subsequent
shootout. The assault on the police headquarters is probably a revenge attack
for the killings of the two militants at the Palace of Justice.

The DHKP-C has a small number of supporters and sympathisers mostly in
Istanbul's poor neighbourhoods of Okmeydani and Gazi. The latest attacks are not
likely to gain public sympathy or wider support for the Marxist group.

Separately, police detained a gunman on April 1 who entered an office of the
ruling AKP in Istanbul's Kartal district and hung from the building's window a
Turkish flag with the emblem of a sword. The gunman's motive is unknown but the
incident in Kartal does not seem to be related to the DHKP-C attacks.

PM Ahmet Davutoglu on April 1 vowed to prevent all unauthorised demonstrations
ahead of the crucial June parliamentary elections. "There will be no toleration,
not even for a minute, of those who go out to protest on the street without
permission, threatening the country's security, whoever they are and whatever
their intent is," Hurriyet Daily News quoted the prime minister as saying.
According to the constitution, everyone has the right to hold unarmed and
peaceful meetings and demonstration marches without prior permission.

The first major test for the government's "zero-toleration policy" will be the
May Day celebrations which often ends in clashes between riot police and
demonstrators. The May Day is a public holiday in Turkey and the left-wing
workers' union DISK, leftist parties and socialist groups take to the streets
for celebrations. The governor of Istanbul said in a recent statement that
groups would not be allowed to enter the Taksim Square for the May Day
celebrations. But DISK officials said they would defy the governor's Taksim ban
and they were determined to celebrate the May Day at the Taksim Square.

The government critics say the ruling party AKP and President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan use the terrorist attacks as an excuse to crack down on legal
opposition.


LOAD-DATE: April 02, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Violence spreads to Turkish cities, buildings of Kurdish party set on fire

LENGTH: 707  words


Escalating violence with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) spread to Turkey's
cities on Tuesday, sparking fears of wider ethnic conflict ahead of the November
polls.

In a night of nationalist violence, angry crowds attacked the buildings of the
Kurdish party Peoples' Democracy Party (HDP) in a number of cities. Nationalist
protesters, who see the HDP as the political front to the PKK, set the
headquarters of the Kurdish party on fire in Ankara and similar incidents took
place in at least six other cities, including Istanbul. Some Kurdish businesses
were also attacked. The HDP said on its official Twitter account that the riot
police did not perform its duties while nationalist protesters tried to storm
its headquarters. There were no reports of casualties from the attacks on HDP
buildings. A pro-government group also attacked the local office of the
centre-left Peoples' Republican Party (CHP) in the Sincan district of Ankara.

Turkey's nationalists organised marches on September 8 to protest against recent
PKK attacks that killed more than 30 security personnel since Sunday. But
Tuesday's protests turned very violent, underlining the country's ethnic
tensions. The conflict with the PKK had been largely confined to the eastern and
southeaster provinces, nevertheless the events on September 8 showed that the
situation is very fragile and violence could easily get out of control.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu appealed for
calm. The CHP asked its members not to attend any demonstrations that could
incite ethnical hatred. Devlet Bahceli, the leader of the Nationalist Movement
Party (MHP) that organised the anti-PKK protests warned his followers against
provocations. But, Bahceli repeated his call to declare martial law in the
eastern and south-eastern provinces.

16 soldiers were killed in a PKK ambush on a military convoy on Sunday in the
Daglica province, near Turkey's border with Iraq. 14 policemen lost their lives
on Tuesday in a bomb attack in the eastern province of Igdir, close to the
Armenian border. Following the Daglica attack Turkish warplanes launched a wave
of airstrikes on PKK positions in Northern Iraq, the PKK's stronghold. Turkish
ground forces also crossed into Northern Iraq in pursuit of Kurdish militants
for the first time in years as part of the hot pursuit of PKK militants who were
involved in the Daglica attack, the deadliest assault on security forces since
the two year ceasefire collapsed in July.

In yet another sign of Turkey's widening polarisation, pro-government protesters
attacked the offices of the Hurriyet newspaper for a second time this week,
accusing Hurriyet misquoting a statement by President Erdogan. They pelted the
offices of the newspaper with rocks. Commenting on recent unrest in Turkey,
Erdogan said earlier this week if a party had got 400 seats in the June
elections and reached the required number in parliament to change the
constitution, the situation would be different. Hurriyet suggested in a tweet
that Erdogan referred to the Daglica attack. The newspaper later deleted this
tweet, but AKP supporters already launched a campaign against Hurriyet, which is
critical of Erdogan and the AKP government. Davutoglu denounced the attack on
Hurriyet and called for more extra security measures to protect newspapers and
other media outlets.

The attack on the Hurriyet newspaper highlighted growing concern over press
freedom in Turkey. Earlier this month the police raided the offices of
Koza-Ipek, which is linked to the US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, Erdogan's
former ally-turned foe, on suspicion of providing financial support to the
so-called "Fethullahist Terrorist Group". The Koza-Ipek Group owns TV channels
Kanalturk, Bugun and Bugun and Millet newspaper. The raid on Koza-Ipek sparked
concerns that the government may crackdown on the opposition media ahead of the
elections. Sparely, local media report that Turkish internet users were unable
to access Twitter and Facebook. It is not clear yet whether the problem with
accessing to the social media is a result of a technical problems or a measure
taken by the authorities. The government had blocked access to social media in
2014 ahead of the local elections.


LOAD-DATE: September 09, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 12, 2015 Monday

EYEWITNESS: Agony, despair and anger in Ankara

LENGTH: 664  words


This was supposed to be a rally for peace. Thousands of people who had been
bussed in to Ankara were gathered around the capital's historic train station on
October 10, dancing, singing and chanting anti-government slogans, while waiting
for the demonstration to go ahead.

But the rally never took place, as at just after 10am two suspected suicide
bombs ripped through the crowds, leaving at least 95 people dead and 296
wounded, with 46 of them in serious condition.

Before the rally, protesters had anticipated small but contained clashes between
radical groups and riot police, which could lead to the police using tear gas
and water cannons - the hallmarks of anti-government demonstrations in Turkey in
recent years. Perhaps it shouldn't have been, but Turkey's worst terrorist
attack came as a complete shock.

One trembling woman, who was close to the explosion site, said human parts and
flesh had poured down on her. She burst into tears and could not speak anymore.

Health workers, who gathered around the train station to attend the rally, were
overwhelmed by the number of wounded people. Some eyewitnesses claimed that
ambulances and paramedics had only arrived some 30 minutes after the explosions.

As the real picture started to emerge and the death toll from the bombings
started to rise, anger took over.

In Kizilay, in the centre of Ankara, a group of people started to chant
anti-government slogans. One young man from the group in a blood-stained t-shirt
was shouting "we came all the way from Mersin [on the Mediterranean coast], all
we wanted was peace, but they bombed us, killed us".

A young woman shouted at the people sitting at the cafes: "Enough is enough! How
long will you sit there, doing nothing, while they kill us?"

Blame game

Some of the protesters in Ankara complained that security measures had not been
tight enough and there had been no police presence around the train station,
making it possible for the perpetrators to slip into the crowd and carry out the
attacks. Normally police only set up checkpoints for body searches just before
people enter public areas designated for demonstrations, not where people gather
beforehand.

Some protesters also think the government's statements and rhetoric about the
opposition groups encouraged jihadists and anti-left extremists.

Others directly blamed the government for the attacks, which they see as an
attempt to silence the opposition before the November elections. They believe
that the government at the very least ignored intelligence reports suggesting
that such attacks could be carried out.

They pointed to what happened in the border town of Suruc in July when a
suspected Islamic State (IS) terrorist blew himself up, killing more than 30
people who gathered at the cultural centre ahead of a planned trip to help
rebuild the nearby Syrian Kurdish town of Kobani. The protesters say that, given
what happened in Suruc, the government could have taken more precautions prior
to the Ankara rally to prevent a similar disaster.

IS has welcomed the Ankara attack on "the infidel communists in Ankara", but the
jihadist group has not yet claimed responsibility for the suicide attacks,
reported the Milliyet newspaper.

The government denies any involvement and rejects claims that the intelligence
service's incompetence led to the attacks.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said that only IS, the Kurdish PKK guerrillas or
the MLKP (extremist leftist group) and DHKP-C (another armed revolutionary
group) are capable of carrying out an attack at this magnitude.

Yet for the people who went to Ankara to attend the rally and watched
Davutoglu's statement on TV on their way back home on buses, the government is
responsible for the attacks, directly or indirectly, until proven otherwise.

They mostly share what Selahattin Demirtas, co-chair of the HDP, said: "We are
faced with a murderous state. Is it possible that a state with such a strong
intelligence network did not have prior information on the attack?"


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 27, 2015 Tuesday

Turkish police raid Koza-Ipek headquarters in Ankara after authorities seize
control of Koza companies

LENGTH: 255  words


The Turkish police arrived at the offices of the Koza-Ipek Group in Istanbul and
the company's headquarters in Ankara on October 27 to notify Koza-Ipek
executives about a court decision,  appointing a panel of trustee to manage the
holding company, following an investigation into the Group over its alleged
links to the US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, a formal ally of President Recep
Tayyip Erdogan turned arch-enemy.

The government crackdown on the Koza-Ipek which owns the listed mining companies
as well as the opposition media outlets Bugun TV, Kanalturk as well as the Bugun
and Millet newspaper, came only days before Turkey's crucial elections, in a
sign of the government's increasingly authoritarian rule.

Erdogan accuses Gulen and his followers of infiltrating the country's police
force, media and judiciary, establishing what he calls "a parallel state" to
overthrow him. Gulen denies the charge.

Lawyers of the Koza-Ipek prevented the police entering the buildings in
Istanbul. Lawyers said the police did not have the legal authority to enter the
premises.

In Ankara, a crowd gathered in front of the company's headquarters scuffled with
the police. The riot police used tear gas to disperse the protesters and finally
forced their way into the building. According to media reports, the authorities,
escorted by police, are searching the building.

The police raid sent the Koza company shares plunging. Shares in the mining
company Koza Maden dropped 12.30%, Koza Altin fell 11.68%, and Ipek Dogal Enerji
plunged 9.35%.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            November 30, 2015 Monday

Head of Diyarbakir Bar Association shot dead by unclear ballot

LENGTH: 189  words


Tahir Elci, head of Diyarbakir Bar Association, was shot dead on November 28 in
the city centre of Diyarbakir during a gun battle between police and
unidentified people. Two policemen were also shot dead during the gun battle
together with Elci.

Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said on November 28 that Elci could be caught in
crossfire or assassinated. Pro-Kurdish opposition party HDP said on November 28
in a written statement that the incidence was a planned assassination and called
for protests, however, riot police did not allow demonstrations in Istanbul, and
used tear gas and water cannons.

Elci and lawyers from the Association was giving a press speech on November 28
in front of a historical mosque in the city centre against the recent curfews
and clashes between so-called YPG-H members, youth arm of PKK, and security
forces in Diyarbakir city, when a gunfire broke between security forces and
unidentified people using guns, according to the video records.

Elci was recently voiced on popular TV channel CNN Turk that he does not see PKK
as a terrorist organization and legal process was continuing regarding this
speech.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                          December 16, 2015 Wednesday

Turkey's Katmerciler to evaluate partnership options with US-based Oshkosh
Corporation

LENGTH: 383  words


Katmerciler Arac Ustu Ekipman, a Turkish vehicle top equipment producer, said on
December 16 in a filing with the Bourse Istanbul that it signed a
confidentiality agreement with US-based Oshkosh Corporation in order to evaluate
future partnership options.

Katmerciler is the major producer of TOMA vehicles, riot control armored
vehicles with water cannons, in Turkey. Turkish police often use TOMAs to
disperse protesters. Shares of Katmerciler rose sharply in October 2014 after PM
Ahmet Davutoglu said the government would buy 10 new TOMAs for each vehicle
destroyed. The company also produces fire trucks, hydraulic garbage trucks and
tippers.

Oshkosh Corporation is a leading manufacturer and marketer of access equipment,
specialty vehicles and truck bodies for the primary markets of defense, concrete
placement, refuse hauling, access equipment and fire & emergency, according to
information on the company website. Oshkosh, which was founded in 1917, has
manufacturing plants in eight U.S. states and in Australia, Belgium, Canada,
China, France and Romania and through investments in joint ventures in Mexico
and Brazil. The company currently employs approximately 12,000 people worldwide.

Katmerciler informed on December 12 that it planned to build a machinery,
equipment and vehicle production plant in Ankara for the defence industry and
security forces with a $2mn investment. The company plans to complete the
production plant within the first quarter of 2016 and it will finance the
investment via its own equity.

Katmerciler in November 2014 won a tender held by Turkey's general directorate
of security affairs with an offer of (EURO)11.8mn to provide 50 units of TOMAs.
In October last year, Katmerciler  also won a public tender with an offer of
(EURO)13.7mn to provide 65 units of TOMAs. The company said on January 12 that
it received a (EURO)6.7mn worth export order to supply fire truck equipment to
an unnamed foreign customer.


Katmerciler (consolidated) Financials
(mn TRY)                                         end-14     end-Sep       ?
Total Assets                                        212         256     21%
Total Sharholders' Equity                            43          57     33%
                                                  Q3-14       Q3-15   (y/y)
Revenues                                           35.1        96.9    176%
Gross Margin                                        8.5        30.7    261%
Operating Income                                    5.3        20.8    290%
Net Income                                          0.8         6.5    709%
                                             Jan-Sep/14  Jan-Sep/15   (y/y)
Revenues                                          126.1       233.7     85%
Gross Margin                                       22.5        60.5    169%
Operating Income                                   12.3        42.4    245%
Net Income                                          6.9        14.3    106%
source: kap

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            January 11, 2016 Monday

BEYOND THE BOSPHORUS: Erdogan's Kurdish crackdown ignores the lessons of history

LENGTH: 1045  words


The explosions that rung in the New Year in southeast Turkey this year were not
from fireworks. The rat-ta-tat of rockets, sniper gunfire and makeshift
explosives that punctuate the silence of eerie, curfew-imposed streets has
become the soundtrack by which many of Turkey's Kurds now live in areas such as
Diyarbakir's historic Sur district. Here, government forces allowed no festive
let-up in the bitter war against resurgent separatist Kurdish militants.

It's a damning comment on 13 years of Justice and Development Party (AK) rule
that, having promised so much, the party of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is
back behind square one when it comes to bringing peace to a region that has been
the scene of violence for decades.

Only six months ago, it had seemed to be a good time to be a Kurd. The exploits
of the hard-fighting Syrian and Iraqi Kurds against Islamic State were much
admired worldwide, giving various Kurdish independence bids a new sheen. And in
Turkey in June, for the first time ever, a pro-Kurdish party attracted enough
mainstream supporters to win more than the 10% vote that it needed to get into
parliament. In the background, the government had been negotiating for some time
with imprisoned Kurdish leader Abdullah Ocalan in its taboo-breaking efforts to
find accommodation with his Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) and its supporters.
Turkish Kurds had become used to peace.

Fast forward to January 2016, and it's as if none of that had happened. Fighting
is raging between government troops and PKK militants in several provinces.
Unlike in the past, the fighting is overwhelmingly in urban areas, at great cost
to the civilian population, with upwards of 250 civilian deaths. According to a
report by the Turkish rights organisation, Humanist Buro, at least 58 children
were killed between the end of July and the end of December last year, including
a 35-day-old baby.

The armed youth wing of the PKK has been digging trenches and putting up
barricades in Kurdish areas. Locals - even Kurdish separatists - have begun to
complain of harassment by the armed youth. One man told Al Jazeera Turk that
crosses had been marked onto his door and the houses of others known to be
religious or insufficiently pro-PKK. Others say that when the security forces
take over, their ill-treatment drives locals back into the arms of the militant
Kurds. Businessmen in Kurdish cities complain that their livelihoods have been
destroyed and blame both sides.

Politically, Erdogan is spearheading an obsessive pursuit of the People's
Democracy Party (HDP), whose presence in parliament deprived him of the
supermajority he needs to push through his plans for a powerful presidency. In
the first week of January, riot police and special forces raided one of the
HDP's Istanbul offices and detained six people. Party offices and members have
been targeted by police, prosecutors and nationalist attackers and HDP leader,
Selahattin Demirtas, has been accused of "treason".

Erdogan appears to want the lifting of parliamentary immunity from HDP MPs -
something that was done 20 years ago to little practical effect when Kurdish
deputies were thrown out of parliament and imprisoned amid great publicity.
Ocalan, at the time in hiding, was reportedly delighted, saying that he had
finally outmanoeuvred the government into turning a local problem into a global
issue. International courts overturned the cases against the MPs, who spent ten
years in jail, and the AK Party's own legal changes in 2004 allowed for a
retrial and acquittal. In the meantime, the PKK's insurgency became more, not
less violent.

It is all so depressingly old fashioned. What Erdogan is doing has been done
many times before by leaders considered far less visionary. At least they were
virtually forced to crack down by the military apparatus that was then steering
the country. Erdogan has, to general applause, tamed the armed forces and
warlike "Deep State" and sought a path of compromise. His return to the old ways
is a choice made by a man who has tried and rejected negotiations.

One hope here is that Erdogan - at least on the matter of immunities - does not
have the full support of the AK Party government. Reports from the AK Party's
winter conference show that many, including Interior Minister Efkan Ala, oppose
this as ineffective. They are, reportedly, also not so keen on that other
obsession of his - a presidential system.

Missed opportunities

If Erdogan's peacemaking credentials are in tatters, the Kurds have also lost
their shine. When the increasingly uncooperative PKK broke its own ceasefire
last summer, the angry Turkish government pounced, and managed to use public
fear of the resulting unrest to reverse its electoral losses in the snap
November election to regain its parliamentary majority.

The HDP also missed its chance: instead of cementing their role as peacemakers
and mediators, its MPs allowed themselves to be seen as too close to the PKK. At
the end of last year, HDP leader Selahattin Demirtas upset moderate supporters
by controversially defending the trenches dug by the PKK youth and supporting
their tactics for "autonomy by force".

The government hasn't allowed anyone to visit Ocalan since April, meaning that
the one man who could talk the Kurds down is silenced. Into the vacuum has
stepped the much more warlike commander Cemal Bayik, who also supports the
aggressive actions of the PKK youth.

Despite a public determination to stamp out the PKK, the government knows it
cannot do this militarily. The PKK also knows it cannot achieve Kurdish autonomy
without the government's say-so. On the face of it, though, both sides want to
keep fighting for now so they can weaken the opposition further.

The optimistic spin is that sooner or later everyone will want to stop,
exhausted by the stalemate that a simple study of a hundred years of history
could have shown they would reach.

But since Erdogan has seen that more violence can indeed mean more votes, then
what's to stop him concluding that even more violence will bring him even more
votes. Maybe even enough to hold yet another election and steer his AK Party to
the supermajority needed for his precious presidency.

So far, I'm still on the side of logic, practicality and reason. But only just.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                 June 24, 2013

Violence flares in Istanbul, Turkish PM Erdogan continues to hold mass rallies.

LENGTH: 284  words


On Saturday (June 22), thousands of people gathered in Istanbul's Taksim Square
to commemorate four protesters and a policeman killed in earlier protests.  Riot
police used water cannon and tear gas to disperse the crowd in the first clash
in Istanbul for almost a week. There were also clashes between the protestors
and with police in the capital Ankara over the weekend. Protests, especially in
Istanbul, had eased since last Saturday after police cleared Istanbul's Gezi
Park, the epicentre of the unrest. The interior ministry said about 2.5mn people
took part in demonstrations in 79 cities since the unrest began on May 31.
Around 5,000 people have been detained and 4,000 protesters and 600 police
injured, according to the ministry.

Meanwhile PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan's ruling AKP held mass rallies in the Black
Sea city of Samsun on Saturday and in the eastern city of Erzurum on Sunday. The
AKP has called five rallies to show its strength and popularity so far since
anti-government protests began. Erdogan continued to make confrontational
statements at the rallies. He told his supporters that the protests were part of
an international conspiracy, the protests serve the country's enemies, and the
protestors insulted Islam. He also defended the tactics of the police. Erdogan
has been holding rallies in Turkey's pious Anatolian heartland, the AKP's
stronghold, in a move to keep his conservative supporter base intact ahead of
local elections scheduled for March 2014. The anti-government protests and AKP
rallies only show the deep division between Erdogan's conservative supporters
and mostly middle-class, liberal protestors. Turkish society seems to have
become more polarised than ever.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                 June 26, 2013

EU ambassadors demand transparent investigation into police crackdown on
protests.

LENGTH: 261  words


Egemen Bagis, the Turkish minister in charge of EU affairs, top police officers
and Ibrahim Kalin, an advisor to PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan, on Tuesday briefed EU
ambassadors on recent unrest and anti-government protests. At the meeting the
Turkish officials presented pictures and other material to show how the protests
turned violent, Hurriyet Daily News reported. Bagis also talked about how
European countries responded to street protests, according to the daily.

However, EU ambassadors told the daily that comparing the Turkish police's
heavy-handed crackdown on peaceful demonstrators to other countries' police
interventions is pointless and not helpful. EU ambassadors also requested
transparency and accountability in the investigation into the Turkish police's
harsh crackdown on civilians. Freedom of assembly and free media are essential
elements of European values and the ambassadors highlighted that these values
have been violated in Turkey, one diplomat told the daily.

On Tuesday, thousands of people gathered in Istanbul's Taksim Square and in
Ankara to protest against the release of a police officer accused of killing of
a 26- year old demonstrator on June 1 in Ankara. Prosecutor released the officer
on the ground that he acted in self-defence. On Saturday, riot police used water
cannon and tear gas to disperse the protestors who gathered in Taksim Square to
commemorate four protesters and a policeman killed in earlier protests. On
Tuesday, the police did not intervene however there were clashes between the
protestors and police in Ankara.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                  July 9, 2013

Police fire tear gas to disperse demonstrators in Istanbul, Washington says it
follows developments.

LENGTH: 167  words


Turkish riot police on Monday fired tear gas and water cannon to prevent
demonstrators from entering Gezi Park in Istanbul's Taksim Square, which has
been the epicentre of the anti-government protests. The governor of Istanbul,
Avni Mutlu, reopened the park to public on Monday but he warned that further
demonstrations would not be allowed. A police crackdown on the environmentalist
in Gezi Park on May 31 had sparked the nationwide massive anti-government
protests.

On Monday, demonstrators gathered around Taksim Square and adjacent the park but
the police intervened, detaining around 40 people. There were clashes between
the police and demonstrators. Meanwhile, at a press briefing in Washington, the
US State Department's spokesperson, Jen Psaki, said, the US had been following
the developments in Turkey very closely. The US administration calls on all
parties to ease tensions and resolve the situation through dialogue and urge all
sides to exercise restraint and avoid violence, Psaki said.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                               September 11, 2013

Anti-government protests flare again in several cities after protester dies.

LENGTH: 258  words


Anti-government protests in Turkey's several cities, including Istanbul, Ankara
and the country's third largest city Izmir, flared again late Tuesday after the
death of a protestor in the southern city of Antakya on Monday.

Officials said the 22-year old man's death was the result of a fall from a
building during an anti-government protest however it was initially claimed by
some newspapers that he was killed by a police tear gas capsule fired at his
head.

Activist groups called for protests and thousands of people gathered in the main
squares of Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir and Antakya. Police used tear gas and water
cannons to disperse the protesters who clashed with riot police.

Five people were killed, thousands were injured and hundreds of people were
arrested in clashes between protesters and security forces during the
anti-government demonstrations throughout June and early July. The protests
engulfed Turkey's major cities after police cracked down on demonstrators
seeking to save a park in Istanbul.

Last week, university students in Ankara also clashed with police over the local
municipality's road project and small scale demonstrations in support for the
students have held in several cities.

PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan in August vowed to crack down on anti-government
protests if they would flare again.

The demonstrations in June and July represented the biggest challenge to
Erdogan's decade-long rule.

It is difficult to predict if the country would see another wave of
demonstrations as large and violent as the ones in the summer.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                               December 30, 2013

PM Erdogan still defiant, 3 MPs resign from AKP, protesters clash with police in
Istanbul.

LENGTH: 283  words


Three more lawmakers including the former minister of culture Ertugrul Gunay,
announced their resignations from the ruling AKP on Friday. The high-profile
corruption probe already led to the resignations of three ministers and
comprehensive cabinet reshuffle.

But PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan, facing the most serious challenge to his 11 years
in power, vows to fight what he calls a conspiracy against his government.
Erdogan said over the weekend that graft probe will not be able to topple him.
Meanwhile the Council of State on Friday blocked the government's attempt to
force police to inform their superiors about investigations.

Also on Friday, protesters in Istanbul clashed with riot police. The
demonstration was not as large as the city witnessed last summer when reportedly
around 3mn people took to the streets across the country. Police made dozens of
arrests in Istanbul but no serious injury was reported. There were protests in
other cities.

EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule said in a written statement on Friday
that he has followed developments in Turkey since December 17 with growing
concern. In recent days, the change introduced to the judicial police regulation
has undermined the independence of the judiciary and its capacity to act, Fule
said. The Commissioner urged Turkey to take all the necessary measures to ensure
that allegations of wrongdoing are addressed without discrimination or
preference in a transparent and impartial manner.

Elmar Brok, who chairs the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, and
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier called on the Turkish government
not to intervene in the judiciary process, the Hurriyet Daily News reported.


LOAD-DATE: January 03, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                January 21, 2014

Anti-protest laws enter force amid violence in Ukraine.

LENGTH: 339  words


Holos Ukrainy parliamentary newspaper has published all the laws the parliament
adopted on Jan 16 that abridge civil rights and freedoms. Controversial
anti-protest laws sparked unprecedented riots in Ukraine that continued into a
third day.

These laws ban wearing masks, helmets or other means of disguise by people
taking part in a gathering, assembly, demonstration, protest, rally or other
mass event for the avoidance of evidence of identity. Participation in mass
events while wearing the said things entails punishment of fine of 150 to 250
personal exemptions (UAH 2,550-4,250) or administrative arrest for up to 15
days. The same responsibility is applied in case of persons taking part in mass
events carry open fire, pyrotechnicals, weapons, impact munition for
self-defence.

Besides, the law envisions that installation of tents or other small
architectural forms, objects or structures used as a stage, loudspeaker
equipment for or during mass events without permission from the police entail
fine ranging from 250 to 500 personal exemptions, or administrative arrest for
up to 15 days. Basically, the new laws ban almost all forms of protest.

According to the Kyiv health authorities, more than 100 protesters were wounded
in the violence during past 3 days. Health officials said 3 people lost eyes and
one person had his hand amputated. The interior ministry said more than 100
members of the security forces had been wounded. The ministry added that several
dozen people had been arrested for mass rioting.

Opposition leaders, including Klitschko and Arseniy Yatsenyuk, do not seem to
have any influence over the hard core of radical protesters and are unable to
stop the clashes.

In the mean-time, as of Tuesday morning, the anti-government protesters are
reinforcing barricades in Hrushevskoho Street-the street leading to the cabinet
of ministers and the parliament building. Meanwhile, police are calling the
demonstrators not to resume the clashes, and warns about bringing to criminal
responsibility for dynamic actions.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                               February 10, 2014

Protesters clash with police in Istanbul over internet curbs.

LENGTH: 250  words


Riot police on Saturday used water cannon and tear gas to disperse demonstrators
in Istanbul protesting against new legislation which gives the government more
control over use of the internet.

Several people were injured and arrested during the protest. Despite criticism
from opposition parties, business groups, and the EU, PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan
defended new legislation saying that new regulations do not impose any
censorship, on the contrary they make the internet freer and safer.

European Parliament chief Martin Schulz commented that the legislation
tightening government control is a step back in an already suffocating
environment for media freedom while EU enlargement commissioner Stefan Fule said
public needed more transparency and information, not restrictions. The law is
raising serious concerns and it needs to be revised in line with European
standards, according to European Commission spokesman Peter Stano.

Parliament approved the legislation last week. The legislation allows the
Telecommunications Communication Board to block access to websites without first
seeking a court ruling for privacy violation. The legislation also forces
Internet providers to keep records on Web users' activities for two years and
make them available to authorities when requested.

The government's move to introduce curbs on the internet came after the
corruption scandal broke in December. Pictures and voice records allegedly
related to the corruption scandal have been circulating on the internet.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                               February 14, 2014

President Gul sees problems in controversial internet bill.

LENGTH: 207  words


President Abdullah Gul said on Thursday that there were one or two issues with
the internet bill and he was working on it.

The legislation was submitted to the President's Office earlier this week. Gul
has 10 days to approve or veto the bill. The bill will tighten government
control over the internet, according to opposition parties and government
critics. The bill allows the Telecommunications Communication Board to block
access to websites without first seeking a court ruling for privacy violation.
The bill also forces Internet providers to keep records on Web users' activities
for two years and make them available to authorities when requested. The
government says the bill will protect privacy.

The bill is fuelling political tension and puts Gul at odds with PM Recep Tayyip
Erdogan. Last week, riot police in Istanbul used water cannon and tear gas to
disperse demonstrators protesting against new legislation. Opposition parties,
Turkey's Bar Association, the business group TUSIAD have called on Gul to veto
the bill.

The government introduced the curbs on the internet after the corruption scandal
broke in December. Pictures and voice recordings allegedly related to the
corruption scandal have been circulating on the internet.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               February 20, 2014

Panic takes over Ukraine's capital.

LENGTH: 197  words


Panic takes over Kyiv's population. A number of ATM's put a limit on amount of
cash that can be withdrawn. Huge line ups can be seen at the petrol stations.
Supermarkets are filled with people emptying the store shelves. The clashes with
the riot police continue on the Kyiv's Independence square and surrounding
streets. More than 60 people have been killed in street fighting on Thursday,
the nationalist Svoboda opposition party says. The Interior Minister Vitaliy
Zakharchenko says that the Ukrainian police force has been given combat weapons
for use in the civil unrest.

In the meantime, Head of the Kyiv city state administration Volodymyr Makeenko
has decided to quit the Party of Regions, he said addressing President Viktor
Yanukovych. Human life should be the highest value in the state and nothing
could ever contradict tha principle. In order to confirm my words I have decided
to quit the Party of Regions and take own responsibility for the functioning of
the city, Makeenko said. In addition, five more MP have officially announced
they are quitting the ruling Party of Regions.

Meanwhile, three European Union foreign ministers are meeting President Viktor
Yanukovych.



LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                               February 24, 2014

President expects parliament to pass amendments to internet law this week.

LENGTH: 325  words


President Abdullah Gul told a group of journalists that he expects ruling
AKP-dominated parliament to debate the amendments to the controversial Internet
law this week.

Despite repeated calls from the opposition and rights group for a veto, Gul
approved the law last week. The President said he signed the law because the
government had pledged certain amendments into the legislation and in order to
give the opportunity for these amendments to be made rapidly. However,
President's image as a more liberal and conciliatory figure than is PM Recep
Tayyip Erdogan has been already tarnished.

The law, in its current form, allows the Telecommunications Communication Board
(TIB) to block access to websites without first seeking a court ruling for
privacy violation and it also forces Internet providers to keep records on web
users' activities for two years and make them available to authorities when
requested. Later, the government proposed amendments which will require TIB to
inform judges about its decision to block access to a web page. Under the new
changes, courts should issue a ruling on TIB's request within 48 hours and
authorities' access to Internet traffic will require a court order.

Meanwhile, riot police on Saturday in Istanbul used tear gas and water cannon to
disperse a crowd protesting the new Internet law. Local media reported that
police arrested more than 20 people. The government says the bill aims to
protect privacy.

Gul has already hinted that he is also likely to sign another controversial
government-sponsored bill that restructures the HSYK (Supreme Board of Judges
and Prosecutors). Parliament recently passed the draft bill after a heated
debate in the general assembly that left three lawmakers from opposition CHP
hospitalised. HSYK appoints judges and prosecutors. The government has
reassigned and purged thousands of police officers, police chiefs and
prosecutors since the corruption probe broke in December.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             101 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                 March 14, 2014

Turkish PM Erdogan accuses his opponents of inciting violence.

LENGTH: 260  words


PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan accused the opposition leaders of inciting violence and
he also condemned the anti-government protesters, saying that protests have
nothing to do with democracy.

Erdogan said his opponents, including politicians, media and businesspeople, are
trying to stir up chaos ahead of local elections later this month, the Hurriyet
Daily news reported. Demonstrators, who took to the streets on Wednesday to
mourn a 15-year-old Berlin Elvan who died from injuries suffered in Gezi
protests last year, attacked and destroyed the offices of the ruling AKP,
Erdogan said.

The Hurriyet Daily News reported than two million people joined the
anti-government protests in 53 provinces over two days. On Wednesday, after the
funeral, in Istanbul's Okmeydani district a 22-year-old man was shot dead in an
apparent stand-off between two rival groups. Nurettin Canikli, a senior AKP
official, accused the opposition leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu over the death of the
22-year man. Accoridng to Canikli the man was killed by what he calls the
illegal soldiers of Kilicdaroglu, The circumstances surrounding the Wednesday's
incident still unclear, but the left-wing Revolutionary People's Liberation
Party-Front (DHKP-C) claimed responsibility for the killing.

The deaths of the teenage boy and 22-year old man have fuelled tension and
Turkey is becoming more polarised ahead of the elections. Protesters again
clashed with riot police in Ankara on Thursday with police arresting a number
people and there were clashes with police in Okmeydani, a stronghold of DHKP-C.


LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             102 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                               May 4, 2014 Sunday

Death toll from protests in Ukraine's Odessa rises to 46 people.

LENGTH: 208  words


The death toll from the fire in the building in Odessa, during clashes between
pro-Ukrainian and pro-Russian groups, grew to 46 people, Igor Borshulyak,
prosecutor for the Odessa region said. Moreover, around 200 people have also
been injured including 20 police officers during the clashes.

The fire started as pro-Russian protestants and football fans rallying in
support of Ukrainian unity fought in the center of the city. Russian
pro-activists took shelter in the union building, however became trapped when
another group attacked the building with Molotov cocktails, which supposedly
started the fire. The people trapped in the building were poisoned by smoke
while some died jumping off the building.

Odessa Region police chief Petro Lutsyuk has been dismissed following mass riots
in the city on May 2. The Ukrainian media reported that the Odessa police failed
to take adequate action against pro-Russian rioters. The government buildings
and police stations in several eastern Ukraine cities remain under the control
of armed pro-Russia groups, including a prosecutor's office building in Donetsk.

The turmoil drove the yield on Ukrainian government debt up 25 basis points on
May 2 to a six-week high of 10.9%, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.


LOAD-DATE: May 05, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             104 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                Intellinews - Turkey Sectors and Companies Today

                           October 30, 2014 Thursday

Katmerciler wins tender to supply Turkish police with water cannon vehicles.

LENGTH: 132  words


Katmerciler Arac Ustu Ekipman said it won a tender held by Turkey's general
directorate of security affairs with an offer of EUR 13.7mn to provide 65 units
of riot control armoured vehicles with water cannons.

The final agreement with the security authority has been signed, Katmerciler
said in a filing with the Stock Exchange.

Turkish police very often use these vehicles, known as TOMA, to disperse
protestors. Shares of Katmerciler rose sharply this month after PM Ahmet
Davutoglu said the government would buy 10 new TOMAs for each vehicle destroyed.
Davutoglu's comments came shortly after protesters damaged TOMAs during violent
street protests earlier this month.

The company, founded by a former lawmaker from the ruling AKP, also produces
fire trucks, hydraulic garbage trucks and tippers.


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             105 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                Intellinews - Turkey Sectors and Companies Today

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Katmerciler receives (EURO)6.7mn export order

LENGTH: 191  words


Katmerciler Arac Ustu Ekipman, a Turkish vehicle top equipment producer, said on
January 12 in a filing with the Bourse Istanbul that it received a (EURO)6.7mn
worth export to supply fire truck equipment to an unnamed foreign customer.

The deliveries will be made within this year, the statement detailed.

Katmerciler said on November 24 that it won a tender held by Turkey's general
directorate of security affairs with an offer of (EURO)11.8mn to provide 50
units of riot control armored vehicles with water cannons, known as TOMA in
Turkey. In October, Katmerciler said that it also won a tender held by the
general directorate of security affairs with an offer of (EURO)13.7mn to provide
65 units of TOMAs.

Turkish police often use TOMAs to disperse protestors. Shares of Katmerciler
rose sharply in October after PM Ahmet Davutoglu said the government would buy
10 new TOMAs for each vehicle destroyed. Davutoglu's comments came shortly after
protesters damaged TOMAs during violent street protests earlier in October.

The company, founded by a former lawmaker from the ruling AKP, also produces
fire trucks, hydraulic garbage trucks and tippers.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             108 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                  June 1, 2015

KYIV BLOG: Saakashvili in Odesa - a reform-driven or politically motivated
appointment?

LENGTH: 1301  words


Sergei Kuznetsov in Kyiv bne IntelliNews

The surprising decision by Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko to appoint
former Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili to the position of governor of
Odesa region will inevitably be a new irritant in relations between the
government in Kyiv and the Kremlin. Even more importantly, Saakashvili's passion
for tough measures could bring destabilisation to the region instead of the
urgently needed reforms. However, this appointment seems to part of a long,
complicated game being played by Poroshenko.

Visiting Odesa on May 30 with the aim of introducing Saakashvili, Poroshenko
called the city "a pearl of Ukraine" with enormous untapped potential. "That is
why Odesa is a special target for the [Russian] aggressor. Odesa must unite as
Ukraine did. And the right words must be found for everybody [in this
multicultural region]," he said.

This speech clearly indicates the main problem that the 47-year-old Saakashvili
will face in the course of the next weeks and months. The Black Sea region,
where 20% of the population identifies as Russian and up to 18% as
non-Ukrainian, harbours strong anti-Kyiv sentiments.

Last year, on May 2, more than 40 pro-Russian protesters died as a result of
being trapped in a trade union building in Odesa that caught fire. It is still
unclear who was responsible for these events, and both sides blame each other.
This year, on the anniversary of the tragedy, the government significantly
boosted the law enforcement and military presence in Odesa in order to try to
prevent possible riots.

However, the separatist mood is declining in the region, according to Volodymyr
Fesenko, head of the Kyiv-based think-tank Penta Political Centre. "Lots of
people are dissatisfied with the central authorities, but most Odesa residents
have no desire to take to the streets and provoke a similar war to that in the
Donbas," Fesenko tells bne IntelliNews.

On the other hand, the big question is how effective Saakashvili's reforms will
actually be given that he has limited power, whereas in Georgia he solved many
problems through imprisonments. "For Mr Saakashvilli, institutional resistance
there may very well be far greater than the powers invested in him as Governor
can address," prominent Odesa blogger Nikolai Holmov writes.

Poroshenko has expressed a desire to see in Ukraine a war against corruption and
injustice, economic reforms, as well as the introduction of more
decentralisation. "Challenging times require strong and decisive actions. Every
citizen expects that the government will be able to overcome the problems that
have for years prevented Ukraine, including Odesa region, from achieving its
potential," Poroshenko said on May 30.

Chasing the Kremlin

Fesenko, like some others, is optimistic about the appointment. He believes that
the new governor needs to show "decisiveness and toughness" rather than
"flexibility". "That's why [Saakashvili] was appointed. In Ukraine, especially
in complicated areas, decisiveness and toughness are more efficient than
flexibility and dogovorniak [a Russian and Ukrainian word for an informal
agreement made between parties through negotiation]," Fesenko says.

One party that is definitely disappointed by the appointment of a well-known
rival of the Kremlin is the Moscow political elite. Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's
prime minister, already published this caustic comment on Twitter on May 30:
"When the circus comes to town... Poor Ukraine."

The second part of this message was posted on Medvedev's Russian account in
Ukrainian, and swiftly triggered a sarcastic reaction in Kyiv. "Who else should
be appointed in Ukraine in order for [Russia's] prime minister to tweet
exclusively in Ukrainian?" Dmytro Kuleba, a special envoy of Ukraine's foreign
ministry, wrote on his personal Twitter account.

In 2008, Saakashvili, who was the Georgian president at the time, clashed with
the Kremlin in a brief military conflict after Tbilisi had attempted to
reestablish its rule over the breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia
regions. After the conflict, Russia recognised the independence of these
territories, triggering a tough political reaction in Tbilisi as well as in
Western capitals. Currently, South Ossetia and Abkhazia rely on Russia's
financial support.

Wrestling Kolomoisky

The appointment of Saakashvili has also provoked a nervous reaction from
Ukraine's oligarch Ihor Kolomoisky. The appointment is a painful blow to his
interests as the previous governor of Odesa region, Ihor Palytsia, was
considered close to Kolomoisky.

The pro-Kyiv Palytsia was appointed in May 2014 by then-interim-president
Oleksandr Turchynov, shortly after the incident in which the protesters were
killed in Odesa. The move was an attempt by the Kyiv authorities to end the
pro-Russian uprising in the region. Indeed, Palytsia contributed to a
stabilisation of the situation in Odesa. "It made it possible for Kolomoisky to
act as a stabiliser during the specific period. But his ambitions seriously
increased and, as a result, the government decided to reduce his impact by
dismissing him from his post as governor of the Dnipropetrovsk region," Fesenko
says, referring to Poroshenko's firing of Kolomoisky in March during an
escalating conflict over the oligarch's business interests in Ukraine's oil and
gas companies Ukrnafta and Ukrtransnafta.

Kolomoisky hasn't tried to hide his disappointment at Poroshenko's decision to
hire Saakashvili. "I'm surprised. I think he will be a temporary figure," the
oligarch told Ukrainian website  LB.ua on May 29, adding emotionally that
Saakashvili "will hand over Odesa to the Russians, and [Ukraine] will be forced
to fight to get it back."

"By the way, what is his citizenship? American, Georgian, Dutch, and he now also
needs to take up Ukrainian citizenship," added Kolomoisky, who previously told
journalists that he held Ukrainian, Israeli and Cypriot passports. "He
[Saakashvili] probably surpasses me."

Poroshenko granted Ukrainian citizenship to Saakashvili on the eve of his
appointment as a governor, and this move has already triggered a wave of
speculation in Tbilisi regarding Saakashvili's political future in Georgia.
"Ukrainian citizenship may act as a reason for depriving Saakashvili of Georgian
citizenship. Lawyers say that losing Georgian citizenship will prohibit
Saakashvili from undertaking political activities in Georgia," Georgian TV
Channel One reports.

Previously, in 2014, a court in Georgia issued an arrest warrant for Saakashvili
in relation to a charge of abuse of power. The former president claimed this act
was politically motivated.

"Temporary" job

Kolomoisky's belief that Saakashvili's post in will be temporary appears to be
shared by many experts in Kyiv. However, they clarify that the post of governor
could become a platform for Saakashvili's triumphant appearance in Kyiv either
as prime minister or as a key figure of a government that would be more
favourable to Poroshenko. "If Saakashvili's activities in Odesa are successful
enough, he may be needed in Kyiv. Today, there is a vacancy for a main reformer,
a driver of reforms in Ukraine. Ukraine's politics lacks strong energy," Fesenko
believes.

Some believe that the Ukrainian government will be reshuffled in the autumn, and
Saakashvili could theoretically take up the post of prime minister. However, the
fact that Saakashvili would be another foreigner in the cabinet - the finance
minister is American and the economy minister Lithuanian - could pose
difficulties; too many might provoke a negative reaction from society, Fesenko
says.

On the other hand, politicians and experts in Kyiv are actively discussing some
other possible figures for the position of prime minister. The US-born financial
chief Natalie Jaresko is one of the leading candidates.


LOAD-DATE: June 05, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             113 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                October 28, 2015

Turkish police storm opposition media buildings days before election

LENGTH: 449  words


The Turkish police stormed the offices of the opposition media companies Bugun
TV and Kanalturk TV on October 28 in a government crackdown on the Koza-Ipek
Group for its alleged links to the US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, a formal
ally of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan turned arch-enemy, just days before the
general elections in the country.

The authorities took control of more than 20 companies owned by the Koza-Ipek on
October 27.

Erdogan accuses Gulen and his followers of infiltrating the country's police
force, media and judiciary, establishing what he calls "a parallel state" to
overthrow him and his Justice and Development Party (AKP) government.

Gulen denies the charge.

Prosecutors in Ankara appointed a panel of trustee to manage the Koza companies
on October 27, following an investigation into the Koza-Ipek over its alleged
links to the so-called Fetullahist Terrorist Group.

The Koza-Ipek is accused of providing financial support to the Gulenist network.

Dozens of people gathered in front of the broadcasters Bugun and Kanalturk on
October 28 and brawls broke out when the government-appointed trustees tried to
enter the media companies' offices. The riot police dispersed the crowd with
water cannons and tear gas.

After the police and trustees forced their way into the offices, Bugun and
Kanalturk went off air briefly, but resumed their broadcast later.

Journalists and politicians, including Selahattin Demirtas, the co-chairman of
the Kurdish party HDP and several lawmakers from the main opposition Republican
People's Party (CHP), visited the TV channels in solidarity.

The incident highlights the tension and deep polarisation in Turkey ahead of the
crucial November 1 elections. Erdogan hopes that his AKP could regain a majority
in parliament it lost in June for the first time since coming to power in 2002.

Critics see the move against the Koza Group as yet another government's attempt
to silence the opposition media and a further sign of the AKP's increasingly
authoritarian rule.

Meanwhile, the US government said it wants fair elections in Turkey and
expressed concern over the media crackdown.

"Turkey's democracy matters to us. And just like we've said elsewhere when we're
talking about democratic elections, we want to - obviously we want to see them
be free and fair and credible," State Department Spokesperson John Kirby said on
October 27. "We also have been very clear that we continue to urge Turkish
authorities to ensure their actions uphold universal democratic values, values
that are enshrined in the Turkish government and constitution itself, including
due process, freedom of expression and assembly, and of course access to media
and information."


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             124 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Serbia Today

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Nine Serbs get suspended sentences for setting fire to the US embassy in
Belgrade in 2008

LENGTH: 264  words


The Belgrade High Court issued nine people suspended prison sentences for
setting fire to the US embassy in Belgrade during 2008 riots over Kosovo's
independence on September 9, local media reported.

The light sentences were unexpected, and could seriously damage Serbia's
reputation as a state unwilling to punish its own citizens for attacking
embassies, which are the property of foreign countries.

The defendants received five to ten months suspended sentences, which means they
will not have to serve in prison if they refrain from committing a criminal
offense during the next two to three years. Two defendants, accused of attacking
the Croatian and German embassies, were acquitted.

On February 21, 2008, shortly after Kosovo unilaterally declared its
independence from Serbia, the government organised a demonstration under the
slogan "Kosovo is Serbia"  which gathered half million people from across the
country.

The protest was led by Serbia's then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, a vocal
opponent of Serbia's EU integration, and Serbia's now President Tomislav
Nikolic, who at that time was acting president of the ultra-nationalist Serbian
Radical Party. Current foreign minister Ivica Dacic was also among the speakers
at the rally.

After the rally, which was full of emotional messages referring to the common
history and links between Kosovo and Serbia, rioters stormed embassy of the US,
which had supported Kosovo, as well as other embassies nearby. They threw rocks,
bottles and torches at the US embassy building, setting it on fire. One person
died during the clashes.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             125 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

CANADA

SECTION: A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 242 words


Cameron holds talks with G8

DAVID Cameron last night arrived in Canada ahead of his first G8 summit as Prime
Minister, at which he is expected to press fellow world leaders to make progress
on reform of trade and financial regulation.

The three days of talks will focus on the global recovery from recession, as
well as banking reform, overseas aid, peace and security.

And Mr Cameron will have his first one-on-one talks with US President Barack
Obama as PM on Saturday, when the BP spill and the situation in Afghanistan will
feature.

FRANCE

Pensions strike

WORKERS across France went on strike yesterday in protest at plans to raise the
retirement age to 62.

Neighbouring countries suffered along with Paris commuters, as walkouts by
drivers delayed or cancelled trains from Italy and Switzerland. Some flights
were also scrapped or delayed as unions staged nearly 200 marches in several
cities.

JAMAICA

Dealer's regrets

THE Jamaican gang leader finally arrested this week after street battles that
killed scores agreed to be extradited to the US yesterday.

Christopher "Dudus" Coke said it was in the best interests of his family and
country and said that he regretted the 76 deaths in the riots.

UNITED STATES

Jacko  murdered'

MICHAEL Jackson was murdered because he was "worth so much more dead than
alive", his sister has said.

In a television interview, LaToya Jackson insisted the Thriller singer's
relatives and fans now deserve "the truth" about his death.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             126 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                              May 13, 2014 Tuesday

US continues to maintain silence on Modi's visa status

LENGTH: 378  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, May 13 -- The US continued to maintain silence on granting a visa to
BJP leader Narendra Modi, whose party-led NDA is projected by exit polls to form
the next government in India.


 "We don't speak on visa acceptances, applications, etcetera, so I don't have
anything for you on that," State Department Spokesperson Jen Psaki told
reporters at her daily news conference yesterday.
 "We view our relationship with India as one that's vitally important for
economic, strategic reasons, and one that we look forward to continuing to grow
in the future," she said when asked about the issue of visa for Modi, who is
BJP's prime ministerial candidate.
 In 2005, the US State Department had revoked a visa that Modi had for
travelling to the US on the ground of alleged human rights violations after the
2002 Gujarat riots.
 The US has repeatedly said there is no change in its long-standing visa policy
relating to Modi but he is free to apply for a visa and await a review like any
other applicant.
 Last year, Modi's plans to address by video a University of Pennsylvania
conference were scrapped following opposition from Indian-American professors,
alumni and students.
 However, in a sudden u-turn in February, the US signalled the end of its
boycott of Modi when its ambassador to India Nancy Powell met him in Ahmedabad.
 US officials have since said whoever is elected India's next leader would be
welcome to the US.
 "We look forward to working with the leaders chosen by the Indian people to
advance this important partnership and to set an ambitious agenda," Psaki said.
 She refused to comment on the results of the exit polls according to which Modi
could be the next Prime Minister.
 Meanwhile, a top American expert has said the prospect for a dramatic
resuscitation of Indo-US relations under a Modi government in India looks less
than promising, which he mainly attributed to visa issue related to him.
 "Today, both Modi and the United States are trapped in a catch-22: in
understandable pique, Modi has declared that he will never apply for an American
visa again - and there is no way to revalidate his now-expired visa if he will
not apply anew," said Ashley Tellis, from the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, a prestigious American think-tank.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             127 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                             May 17, 2014 Saturday

Obama invites Modi to US to further strengthen bilateral ties

LENGTH: 428  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, May 17 -- US President Barack Obama had last night congratulated
Narendra Modi for his electoral victory during a telephone call and invited him
to visit the US to further strengthen bilateral ties.


 "The President invited Narendra Modi to visit Washington at a mutually
agreeable time to further strengthen our bilateral relationship," the White
House said following the maiden telephonic conversation between the two leaders.

 The phone call was stated to be brief.
 Modi, during his US visit would be eligible for an A-1 visa, State Department
Spokesperson Jen Psaki said.
 "The Prime Minister of India will be welcomed to the United States. As Head of
Government, Modi would be eligible for an A-1 visa," she said.
 In 2005, the US State Department had revoked a visa that Modi had for
travelling to the US on the ground of alleged human rights violations after the
2002 Gujarat riots.
 The US has repeatedly said there is no change in its long-standing visa policy
relating to Modi but he is free to apply for a visa and await a review like any
other applicant.
 During the call, Obama felicitated Modi on the BJP's success in India's
historic election.
 "The President noted he looks forward to working closely with Modi to fulfil
the extraordinary promise of the US-India strategic partnership and they agreed
to continue expanding and deepening the wide-ranging cooperation between our two
democracies," the White House said.
 Soon after the call, National Security Advisor Susan Rice wrote on Twitter -
the micro blogging site - that the US looks forward to working with India to
continue to build a strong partnership between the two largest democracies of
the world.
 "We congratulate Narendra Modi and the BJP on its victory in winning a majority
of seats in India's historic national election, which saw more voters cast their
ballots freely and fairly than in any election in human history," White House
Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters.
 Secretary of State John Kerry offered his congratulations through twitter and
said that he looks forward to working with the BJP on expanding their shared
prosperity and security.
 State Department spokesperson said, "Once a new government is formed, we look
forward to working closely with the Prime Minister and the Cabinet to advance
our strong bilateral partnership."
 "As President Obama said in his statement on May 12, we also congratulate the
people of India on concluding their national elections and look forward to
continuing our strong partnership based on shared values," the spokesperson
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             128 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday

USPTO grants trade mark "CIDER RIOT!" to Cider Riot LLC (OREGON)

LENGTH: 38  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Cider Riot LLC (OREGON), has been granted trademark (4611291) titled as "CIDER
RIOT!" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 033. US 047 049. G & S: Hard cider. FIRST USE: 20130425.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             129 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                            January 19, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

'I am proud to stand up'; Former Chicago resident Granville Johnson talks about
a tomorrow when the U.S. will see its first African-American president

BYLINE: Frank Peebles, The Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868  words


While one of Chicago's political heroes is poised to take the title of
commander-in-chief, one of Chicago's war heroes is ready to accept the turning
of an American page.

Barack Obama did relief work in the ghettos of the windy city, the place where
Granville Johnson was born and raised. Both are now world travellers, both are
educated men, both struggled with substance use early in life as a means to
medicate the haunts of cultural alienation, and both have now become articulate
spokesmen for African-Americans. Obama is doing so from the highest political
office in the United States while Johnson is doing it from Longworth near Prince
George. On Tuesday night, they will be united in spirit, Johnson said.

"For once, I am proud to stand up and say I am an American," Johnson said. He
repudiated the USA decades ago, moving to Canada soon after his second tour of
duty in Vietnam.

"A black president is one of the things I never thought I'd live to see. My
history includes fighting for the civil rights movement, being a supporter of
Dr. Martin Luther King and living through the riots that resulted from his
murder. After he was killed, my faith in the American government took a turn for
the worse and the American identity went into the dark ages. A dark age that
included all the wrong men elected to the most powerful positions in the world
for all the wrong reasons, until real change seemed to be the only thing that
could save us. Lo and behold, Mr. Obama is the dawn of that new age."

Johnson was literally in those fiery riots that spewed from the assassination of
King.

He was a combat medic in Vietnam starting in December, 1966, then came home to
Chicago suffering from what science now recognizes as post-traumatic stress
disorder.

Home was no haven, however.

Within three weeks of his return, King was shot to death on April 4, 1968 and
that triggered a massive riot in Johnson's back yard.

Eleven people were killed, 500 injured, 1,000 made homeless, 3,000 arrested, and
a 28-block stretch of his neighbourhood was burned to the ground.

Five thousand troops and 10,500 police were needed to restore order to the city.

For Johnson it was like the war came home. Then, his younger brother received
his Vietnam draft orders, and fearing for his brother's life he volunteered to
go back to Vietnam knowing it was against military policy to send brothers into
the same theatre of battle.

Once he was finished with Vietnam he was also finished with America, moving to
Canada and not returning for the next 32 years.

He became a teacher; raised a family; later became a writer, actor and
hand-drummer. Canada gave him the opportunity America professed to offer, he
said, but delivered only pain to black people.

"Other black leaders had tried, but the could never get past the 'black'
identity, and all the baggage and fear mainstream America had with that, until
Mr. Obama managed to allay those fears."

Johnson said part of the reason for Tuesday's historic inauguration is Obama was
such a charismatic figure he would have impressed anybody at any time in
history, while at the same time America had done things so awful in the world
that even Republicans had to change course.

"America had disgusted itself and gave its head a shake, and decided old-school
was not viable," said Johnson.

"America had abused its power until its own survival was in question.

"Obama was there, and his brilliance is an unstoppable force and there is no
wall that can resist him because he is not alone.

"The team he is putting into play to do the job is where his true brilliance is
shining. I love it."

Johnson had already begun to repair his relationship with his former nation.

In recent years he had gone back for family reunions.

Tracing family lines is what will heal the United States more fully, said
Johnson.

He and Obama share that similarity, too. Before his run for the presidency,
Obama made a special point of searching out his roots in Kenya.

Johnson has been studying African drumming and culture for years and in 2006
that culminated in a trip to Ghana to visit perhaps the most famous African
repatriation family to ever untie from the Western hemisphere.

"I designed a website and it was noticed by the family of Bob Marley," he said.

"They wanted me to design a website for them, for the 61st birthday festivities
for Bob Marley. Part of my doing that was they flew me over to Ghana to take
part in that."

While there, Johnson and his partner Birgit Luesgen made connections to local
artisans and are now Canadian distributors of fair trade drums, masks, baskets
and other African goods. The sales help support communities in the West African
nation, and plug Johnson back into his historic background. Visit
www.designbygranville.com to see the results of that ongoing venture.

Making peace with the colonial ills that are all too fresh and reestablishing
personal relations with Africa, Johnson said, are the only ways America can
truly heal from the atrocities of slavery, segregation and ghettoization.

Obama is leading that charge personally, and now he gets to do so from the
highest political station in the world.

"Not just the U.S. of A. but the world will bless the day Obama rose to
ascension," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                             130 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

FOREIGN-AID BILL WINS INITIAL NOD AS POSTURE TO EGYPT IS DEBATED

BYLINE: DAVID ROGERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 44 words


House Appropriations Committee offers initial approval of $21.3 billion
foreign-aid bill, but warns that Egypt faces potential cuts of $1.3 billion
promised in military aid; members are upset over widely publicized beatings and
arrests of demonstrators this week (M)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             131 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                          September 26, 2007 Wednesday

REVIEW & OUTLOOK -- SAFFRON REBELLION

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 51 words


Editorial applauds courage of Buddhist monks leading inspiring demonstrations in
Burma; criticizes UN and most Asian nations for not heeding US call to support
cause; warns that if Burmese generals do crack down on peaceful protests, their
international protectors like China will bear some of responsibility

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             132 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday

DEMOCRACY HAS BEEN DEMOTED

BYLINE: Daniel Henninger

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 68 words


Daniel Henninger Wonder Land column contends that Burma's protesting monks would
have known no help was coming from outside for democracy movement if they had
spent more time reading pundits and foreign policy experts condemning so-called
Bush doctrine; is disturbed that Bush's critics have felt compelled to refute
not only Iraq but every jot of Bush foreign policy, including espousal of
democracy and freedom

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             133 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           November 8, 2007 Thursday

PAKISTANIS SAY NO

BYLINE: Husain Haqqani

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 70 words


Husain Haqqani commentary suggests Pakistani Pres Pervez Musharraf has badly
miscalculated domestic and international reaction to his imposition of martial
law; says Pakistan's attorneys and rest of its citizens seem determined to
prevent Musharraf from putting his own political survival before rule of law;
warns that unless Musharraf moves quickly, US will be compelled to look beyond
Musharraf to more legitimate leader

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             134 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           January 2, 2008 Wednesday

PAKISTAN TO DELAY VOTE, RISKING VIOLENT REACTION

BYLINE: Zahid Hussain

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 63 words


Decision by Pakistani government to delay next week's elections following
assassination of former Prime Min Benazir Bhutto raises fears of violent
reactions by her supporters; her husband Asif Ali Zardari has called meeting of
her Pakistan People's Party today to discuss unleashing street protests;
postponement could also provoke criticism from US and other Western countries
(L)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             135 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            February 22, 2008 Friday

BALKAN TENSIONS FLARE ANEW

BYLINE: Marc Champion

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words


Serbian mob ransacks part of American embassy in Belgrade in anger over
independence of Kosovo; US and EU officials worry Serbian government might stoke
ethnic passions in Kosovo; violence could also jeopardize wobbly Serbian
government and spill over into Kosovo; most analysts expect spillover is
unlikely; attacks underscore risks of trying to change borders in volatile
Balkans; Kosovo secession pits US against Russia; map; photo (L)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Combination

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             136 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                              March 3, 2008 Monday

US URGES ARMENIA'S POLITICAL FORCES TO SETTLE STRIFE

BYLINE: Robert (Pres) Kocharian

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 59 words


Departing Armenian Pres Robert Kocharian imposes 20-day satte of emergency and
orders troops onto streets in response to violent demonstrations by opposition
protesting what they say was rigged Feb 19 election; opposition leader Levon
Ter-Petrosyan remains under house arrest; lost election to Prime Min Serge
Sarkisian; US urges sides to start talking (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             137 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             March 4, 2008 Tuesday

KREMLIN STAYS TOUGH AFTER VOTE

BYLINE: Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 55 words


Russian riot police detain protesters as pro-government youth rally outside US
Embassy following election victory of Pres Vladimir Putin's protege Dmitry
Medvedev to succeed him; Medvedev also serves as chairman of Gazprom, which
yesterday reduced gas supplies to Ukraine; move raises doubts in Europe about
reliability of Gazprom (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             138 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            March 29, 2008 Saturday

BEIJING OPENS TIBET TO DIPLOMATS

BYLINE: Shai Oster

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 50 words


Chinese government invites group of foreign diplomats to visit Tibet, in effort
to temper international criticism over China's policies there ahead of upcoming
summer Olympic Games in Beijing; embassy officials representing US, France, UK
and other countries make overnight visit to Lhasa; drawings (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Diagram

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             139 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday

PROTESTING THE ANTIWAR PROTESTORS

BYLINE: Kevin Ferris

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 24 words


Kevin Ferris Cross Country column describes Navy veteran Rich Davis's
grass-roots efforts to support US troops in Iraq, in West Chester (Penn); photo

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             140 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday

SOUTH KOREAN PRESIDENT WORKS TO QUELL STORM OVER US BEEF

BYLINE: Evan Ramstad

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 41 words


South Korean Pres Lee Myung-bak prepares to fire cabinet ministers and shelve
some of his agenda to mollify opponents who have turned issue of imports of US
beef into national crisis; again postpones restart of imports following violent
protests (M)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             141 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday

WORLD WATCH -- SOUTH KOREA: PRESIDENT MAY SEEK BAN ON IMPORT OF OLDER US COWS

BYLINE: Lee Myung-Bak (Pres)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 27 words


South Korean Pres Lee Myung-bak says government may seek to ban imports of US
beef from older cattle amid public backlash over fears of mad-cow disease; photo
(S)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             142 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday

WORLD WATCH -- CHINA: US EXPRESSES CONCERN OVER PROTESTERS' DETENTIONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 31 words


US officials express concern over China's continuing detention of six American
pro-Tibet protesters since Aug 19, detentions are first of their kind during
Beijing Olympic Games; photo (S)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             143 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             August 25, 2008 Monday

CHINA FREES 10 PROTESTERS AFTER CLOSING

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 37 words


China has released 10 foreign activists jailed for protesting during Olympics,
including eight Americans protesting China's Tibet policies; US Embassy had
criticized China for failing to show more tolerance and openness (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             144 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday

WORLD WATCH: IRAQ: SHIITES BURN BUSH EFFIGY TO PROTEST SECURITY PACT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 29 words


Supporters of radical Shiite Muslim cleric Muqtada al-Sadr burn effigy of Pres
Bush in protest over US-Iraq security pact; are demanding immediate withdrawal
of US troops (S)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             145 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

US PRESSES PAKISTAN TO HELP INDIA AS TENSIONS RISE

BYLINE: Jackie Range

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 53 words


US officials are urging Pakistan to arrest and turn over at least some suspects
in Mumbai terrorist attacks; contend Indian government is under pressure to show
that something is being done; thousands of Indians demonstrate against Pakistan
and call for answers from Indian government they feel has failed them; photos
(M)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             146 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

LAWMAKER CRITICIZES PICK FOR A KEY INTELLIGENCE POST

BYLINE: Siobhan Gorman

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 58 words


Ranking Republican Peter Hoekstra on House Intelligence Committee calls on Obama
administration to withdraw appointment of Charles Freeman as chairman of
National Intelligence Council; Freeman has suggested that Chinese government
acted too slowly in cracking down on Tiananmen Square demonstrators in 1989; has
also criticized US support for Israel (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             147 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             March 13, 2009 Friday

UNREST IN PAKISTAN INTENSIFIES

BYLINE: Zahid Hussain

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 58 words


US and other Western diplomats are trying to defuse mounting crisis pitting
Pakistan's Pres Asif Ali Zardari against opposition leader Nawaz Sharif; Sharif
is pushing for reinstatement of Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry, who
was removed by former Pres Pervez Musharraf in 2007; police are pressing
crackdown on opposition protesters; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             148 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             March 16, 2009 Monday

PAKISTAN'S WEAKENED PRESIDENT BENDS TO OPPOSITION

BYLINE: Matthew Rosenberg

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 53 words


Pakistan's Pres Asif Ali Zardari is expected to bow to protests and intense
pressure from US and Britain and announce reinstatement of Chief Justice
Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry in effort to end showdown with opposition leader
Nawaz Sharif; concession is expected to leave embattled president politically
weaker; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             149 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday

HERE COME THE PLASTIC PITCHFORKS

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 70 words


Thomas Frank The Tilting Yard column notes today's planned Boston Teaparty-style
protests aimed at easing troubles of economy's winners and decrying Pres Obama's
populist tax and big-government policies; notes that conservative movement has
little patience with traditional populism of anti-big-business sort; expects all
earmarks of right-wing populism to be on display today in Manichean match
between light and darkness

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             150 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday

OBAMA CALLS FOR SIMPLER TAX CODE

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 49 words


Pres Obama uses April 15 tax-filing deadline to call for simpler tax code; one
proposal could free as many as 40% of US taxpayers from having to file returns;
so-called tea-party protests across country warn that heavy government stimulus
spending will inevitably lead to higher taxes; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             151 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday

WORLD WATCH -- AFGHANISTAN: WOMEN STAGE PROTEST AGAINST MARRIAGE LAW

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 49 words


Male and female counterprotester shout down women's protest of conservative
marriage law in Afghanistan that critics say legalizes marital rape as well as
regulating when woman can leave home alone; female police hold hands around
women's rights activists to cvreate protective barrier; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             152 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             April 17, 2009 Friday

THEY DON;T MAKE POPULISM IN THE US LIKE THEY USED TO

BYLINE: Naftali Bendavid

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 60 words


So-called populist rage over corporate bonuses and Obama administration policy
has led to no large-scale protests in US similar to those in 1960s or other
periods in US history; situation is marked contrast to to recent protests in
Europe; heavy investment of middle-class America in financial system may explain
why no mass movements have been organized; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             153 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday

WORLD WATCH -- CHINA: PELOSI'S BEIJING VISIT SPURS HUMAN-RIGHTS PROTESTS

BYLINE: Nancy (Rep) Pelosi

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 27 words


House Speaker Nancy Pelosi tours Shanghai in visit focused on environmental
issues; Pelosi's previous criticism of China's human-rights record emboldens
protesters (S)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             154 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday

REVIEW & OUTLOOK -- OBAMA'S IRAN ABDICATION

BYLINE: Barack (Pres) Obama

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 60 words


Editorial applauds French Pres Nicolas Sarkozy for denouncing fraudulent Iranian
presidential election; condemns Pres Obama's lawyerly caution as inappropriate
in aftermath of blatant vote-rigging that has driven frustrated people to angry
protests; suggests Obama is not good at improvising when popular uprising
inconveniences his realpolitik agenda; drawing

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Diagram

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             155 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             June 27, 2009 Saturday

SILENCE HAS CONSEQUENCES FOR IRAN

BYLINE: Jose Maria Aznar

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 39 words


Former Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar commentary criticizes Pres
Obama's silence on recent Iran government crackdown on political protestors;
contends that without international condemnation, all hope for change in Iran is
lost

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             156 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

WEST BANK SETTLEMENT PLANS STRAIN PEACE EFFORTS

BYLINE: Charles Levinson

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 58 words


Jewish peace activists scuffle with West Bank settlers after Israeli Foreign Min
Ehud Barak approves plans for 455 housing units in area; both sides denounce
Prime Min Benjamin Netanyahu, who is expected to try to appease US and Arabs
with agreement to partially freeze building; cracks are starting to show in
Netanyahu's ruling coalition; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             157 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

KARZAI BACKERS TAKE HARDER LINE ON RECOUNT

BYLINE: Anand Gopal

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 58 words


Supporters of Afghanistan's Pres Hamid Karzai hold demonstration to protest what
they call foreign interference in disputed election; officials cast aspersions
on UN-backed recount process aimed at throwing out fraudulent ballots; US
officials reiterate concerns about whether Afghan government and military can
serve as effective US partners; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             158 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday

WORLD WATCH -- BRITAIN: GOVERNMENT IMPOSES BAN ON ISLAM4UK GROUP

BYLINE: Omar Bakri Mohamed

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 48 words


Britain's government will ban Islamist group Islam4UK after it proposed protest
march through town of Wooton Bassett known for honoring British soldiers killed
in Afghanistan; group's Lebanon-based spiritual leader Omar Bakri Mohamed warns
that ban could push some members to violence (S)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             159 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            February 8, 2010 Monday

WORLD WATCH -- IRAQ: PROTESTERS DENOUNCE BAATH PARTY LOYALISTS

BYLINE: Saddam (1937-2006) Hussein

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 49 words


Hundreds of protesters denounce Iraqis still loyal to Saddam Hussein's Baath
Party; tensions are soaring over efforts by Shiite officials to ban largely
Sunni former Baath party members from running in March 7 parliamentary
elections; appeals court has suspended ban; party was outlawed in 2003 (S)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             160 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

DISSIDENT'S FUNERAL SPURS CRACKDOWN IN CUBA

BYLINE: John Lyons

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 52 words


Cuban government cracks down on protests as dissident Orlando Zapata is buried;
Zapata had starved himself to death to protest his treatment by Cuban regime;
Feb 23 death brought international condemnation; could mark end of Obama
administration's efforts to ease travel and economic restrictions on Cuba; photo
(M)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             161 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             March 22, 2010 Monday

WORLD WATCH -- HAITI: TWO EX-US PRESIDENTS TO MAKE ONE-DAY VISIT

BYLINE: George W (Pres 2001-09) Bush

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 40 words


Former Presidents Clinton and George W Bush will visit Haiti today to assess
postearthquake recovery needs; charged memories of their policies toward Haiti
have led to calls for protests by supporters of ousted Pres Jean-Bertrand
Aristide (S)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             162 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

LIBERALS AND THE VIOLENCE CARD

BYLINE: Rush Limbaugh

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 59 words


Rush Limbaugh commentary rejects liberal equation of skepticism of Obama
administration with tendency toward violence, noting that liberals are perfectly
comfortable with antigovernment protest when they are not in power; contends
millions of peacefully rallying citizens seek nothing more than preservation of
social contract that undergirds American society

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             163 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                              June 14, 2010 Monday

FOR US AND RUSSIA, KYRGYZ CRISIS POSES STRATEGIC RISK

BYLINE: Gregory L White

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 52 words


Worsening ethnic violence in Kyrgyzstan poses strategic dilemma to US, which
uses vital transport hub there to support war in Afghanistan, and to Russia,
which seeks to exert greater influence in region; Russia has called for meeting
of security officials from Collective Security Treaty Orgn to discuss situation
(M)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             164 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

NATIONS CALL FOR ACTION TO QUELL KYRGYZ UNREST

BYLINE: Kadyr Toktogulov

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 55 words


US and Russian officials call for quick action to quell conflict as Kyrgyz
government forces seek to restore order after riots force some 80,000 ethnic
Uzbeks to flood across border into Uzbekistan, with another 15,000 waiting to
cross; government blames supporters of ousted Pres Kurmanbek Bakiyev for
instigating violence; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             165 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                              July 9, 2010 Friday

US PRESSES PENTAGON CONTRACTORS

BYLINE: Alan Cullison

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 59 words


Congressional oversight committee has subpoenaed top officials of defense
contractors Red Star Enterprises and Mina in investigation into their ownership;
Kyrgyzstan's new government has suggested ousted leader Kurmanbek Bakiyev's son
Maksim has role in companies; investigators are concerned that company policies
helped sow instability in region; photos (M)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             166 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

KENYANS TO VOTE ON CONTROVERSIAL CONSTITUTION

BYLINE: Sarah Childress

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 52 words


Kenyans will vote on Aug 4 on new constitution that will provide more
decentralized democracy that checks power of president and establishes two
houses of parliament, while tackling other controversial issues; US believes new
constitution will strengthen democracy shaken by election violence in 2008;
photos (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             167 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday

AFGHAN ALLY KILLS 2 SPANISH SOLDIERS

BYLINE: Maria Abi-Habib

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 46 words


Afghan policeman kills two Spanish soldiers and interpreter during army exercise
in Qalay-i-Naw in Badghis province, before coalition forces shoot him dead;
hundreds of Afghans riot on rumors of Afghan's death, storming government
buildings and attacking Spanish military base (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             168 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday

ACTIVISTS GATHER AHEAD OF WASHINGTON RALLIES

BYLINE: Neil Jr King

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 76 words


Thousands of conservative activists are gathering in Washington DC for series of
rallies and political events; keynote will be rally at Lincoln Center hosted by
Fox News personality Glenn Beck, which will take place on 47th anniversary of
Martin Luther King's 'I Have a Dream' speech; organizers say Beck rally is
fund-raiser for Special Operations Warrior Foundation; some civil-rights
activists see event's timing and location as deliberate provocation (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             169 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday

AFGHAN PROTEST TURNS DEADLY

BYLINE: Maria Abi-Habib

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 41 words


Police shoot and kill at least five protesters in Kabul demonstrating over
reported burnings of Quran in US inspired by Florida pastor; at least 35
policemen and 10 protesters are injured after protest turns violent on speech by
mullah; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             170 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday

HAITIANS PROTEST VOTE RESULTS

BYLINE: Ingrid Arnesen

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 51 words


At least people die in violent protests against official results from Haiti's
Nov 28 presidential election that included ruling party's candidate Jude
Celestin in January runoff against Mirlande Manigat and Michel 'Sweet Mickey'
Martelly; US and UN have both expressed concerns about election fraud; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             171 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday

WORLD WATCH -- PAKISTAN: LEADER, UNDER PRESSURE, PLANS TRIP TO WASHINGTON

BYLINE: Zahid Hussain

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 37 words


Pakistan's Pres Asif Ali Zardari is leaving for unofficial trip to US, not long
after Vice Pres Joe Biden arrived and as ruling coalition hangs by thread and
country suffers widespread protests over economy and security (S)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             172 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

RIOTERS JOLT EGYPTIAN REGIME

BYLINE: Matt Bradley

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


Protesters clash with police across Egypt in greatest uprising in Middle East so
far inspired by Tunisia's recent successful revolt; fall of Tunisian dictator
broke psychological barrier by exposing weakness of supposedly entrenched Arab
regime; any major shift in major ally could have lasting impact for American
interests; photos (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             173 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

MIDEAST UNREST CHALLENGES US

BYLINE: Jay Solomon; Bill Spindle

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 51 words


Obama administration intensifies diplomatic pressure on Egypt's Pres Hosni
Mubarak to initiate wide-ranging political overhauls as Middle East uprisings
jeopardize some of US's closest strategic alliances; wants leaders to embrace
reforms that so far are driven by secular, grass-roots forces; photos; map (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Combination

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             174 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

UNREST RATTLES US APPROACH IN REGION

BYLINE: Jay Solomon

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 51 words


Potential ouster of Egyptian Pres Hosni Mubarak could endanger Arab-Israeli
peace process and weaken other US allies in region, while any crackdown on
internal opponents could put leaders at odds with Obama administration; biggest
danger is chink in united front against Al Qaeda and Iran; photo; chronology (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Combination

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             175 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

SYRIAN STRONGMAN: TIME FOR 'REFORM'

BYLINE: Jay Solomon

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 61 words


Syrian Pres Bashar al-Assad in rare interview says he will push for more
political reform in Syria as protests in region usher in new era; says Arab
rulers need to do more to accommodate their people's rising political and
economic aspirations; says his anti-American stance and confrontations with
Israel have left him in better shape than Egyptian government; photo

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: INTERVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             176 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

GOVERNMENTS RAISE CAVEATS FOR TRAVELERS

BYLINE: Maya Jackson Randall

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 35 words


Several governments have joined US in advising against travel to Egypt and
urging their citizens to leave amid growing unrest; US is organizing evacuation
plan that includes emergency flights out for US citizens (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             177 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

NEW VICE PRESIDENT OFFERS POSSIBILITIES

BYLINE: Keith Johnson

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 48 words


Egyptian Pres Hosni Mubarak names intelligence chief Omar Suleiman vice
president; enjoys support of army, intelligence and security leaders as well as
US and could head transition government if Mubarak steps down; is unlikely to be
long-term solution that Egyptian people want; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             178 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

NOW DAWNING: THE NEXT ERA OF MIDDLE EAST HISTORY

BYLINE: Gerald F Seib

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 50 words


Gerald F Seib Capital Journal column sees new era beginning in Middle East, but
warns that its outcome depends on Egyptian Pres Hosni Mubarak, Mohamed ElBaradei
and to lesser extend on Pres Obama; contends Mubarak could lead orderly
transition with ElBaradei as bridge to secular government; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             179 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

MUBARAK OFFERS TO NEGOTIATE

BYLINE: Margaret Coker; Charles Levinson; Adam Entous; Jonathan Weisman

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 62 words


Egyptian Pres Hosni Mubarak offers to discuss reforms, but opposition parties
say they will not consider talks while he is still in office; Egyptian army vows
not to harm protesters descending on Cairo for 'million-man march'; Obama
administration does not see any scenario in which Mubarak can cling to power and
is concerned about rising prospects for violence; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             180 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

HOSNI MUBARAK, TROUBLESOME ALLY

BYLINE: Max Boot

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 50 words


Max Boot commentary suggests Egyptian Pres Hosni Mubarak's downfall could be
good thing in long run if it opens up Egypt's closed political and economic
systems; warns about short-term costs of new regime in country that has been
subjected to decades of anti-Western and anti-Israeli propaganda; photo

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             181 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           February 2, 2011 Wednesday

MUBARAK PROMISES TO STEP DOWN -- CAIRO, US BLINDSIDED BY REVOLT

BYLINE: Charles Levinson; Margaret Coker; Jay Solomon

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 35 words


Article discusses how Egypt's rulers and their Western allies were caught off
guard as revolution unfolded, despite deep US concerns about where Egypt's
authoritarian government was headed; photos; chronology (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Combination

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             182 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday

OBAMA CALLS ON MUBARAK TO CONSIDER HIS 'LEGACY'

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 24 words


Pres Obama steps up pressure on Egyptian Pres Hosni Mubarak to hasten his
departure from office, saying Mubarak should consider his legacy; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             183 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           February 5, 2011 Saturday

WITHHOLDING US AID CARRIES SOME RISKS

BYLINE: Keith Johnson

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 47 words


Obama administration says it is 'reviewing' billions of dollars in US economic
and military aid to Egypt in light of Egyptian government's response to recent
protests, but US also needs Egypt's assistance in areas including cooperation on
anti-terrorism and Arab-Israeli peace talks (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Abstract

JOURNAL-CODE: WSJ

                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
                           Information Bank Abstracts


                             184 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday

Profile: Inspector General for troubled LA Sheriff s Department

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1035 words


The Los Angeles County Sheriffcs Department already has the FBI, the ACLU and
several county agencies scrutinizing its every move c especially its management
of the jails c but itcs about to get one more set of eyes over its shoulder.

For the first time ever, the agency will be placed under the oversight of an
inspector general who is supposed to have cunfettered accessc to its records,
video footage, witness interviews, facilities and personnel.

Max Huntsman, currently the second-in-command at the District Attorneycs Public
Integrity Division, will assume the $204,423-a-year position Jan. 2.

He was in the headlines most recently for taking down Angela Spaccia, the
disgraced former deputy city manager in the city of Bell.

His appointment comes as the department is facing intense criticism over
allegations of abuses by deputies in the jails. Last week, the FBI charged 18
sheriffcs deputies with a range of felonies that include abusing inmates and
jail visitors, intimidating an FBI agent and other offenses.

After 10 years of prosecuting officials like former LA City Commissioner Leland
Wong, former Vernon Mayor Leonis Malburg, and former Los Angeles Memorial
Coliseum general manager Patrick Lynch, Huntsman said he has the skills to
cbreak open public agencies and figure out whatcs happening in them when
something has gone wrong.c

cBut the thing I learned the most is to not back down from a fight,c Huntsman
added. cIcm not scared about the consequences c Icm going to do what needs to be
done.c

The county Board of Supervisors created the Office of Inspector General upon the
recommendation of the blue ribbon Commission on Jail Violence. In addition to
Huntsman, it would have about two dozen staffers.

Commission general counsel Richard Drooyan explained the group cfelt there
needed to be come comprehensive independent oversight of the Sheriffcs
Department, and a transparent process whereby reports would be made publicly to
hold the department accountable.c

Currently, Special Counsel Merrick Bobb, the Office of Independent Review, the
Office of the Ombudsman, and the American Civil Liberties Union provide
oversight of the department in one form or another.

Their responsibilities would be consolidated under the Office of Inspector
General, which will conduct unannounced inspections of the jails; oversee inmate
complaints; review uses of force; conduct audits and independent investigations;
and report to the board.

Sheriff Lee Bacacs spokesman, Steve Whitmore, welcomed the appointment.

cHuntsman has a proven track record when it comes to public corruption and
shining a light on the inner workings of law enforcement,c Whitmore said. cThe
sheriff is prepared to extend every courtesy for full access to help him succeed
in his new (position).c

Whitmore said it was Baca who originally proposed the idea of an inspector
general.

cDonct forget that one of the first things he said when he was first elected in
1998 was that he wanted an inspector general to oversee the jails, but it didnct
get traction at the time.

There are significant limitations to the inspector generalcs authority, however.

Huntsman would not be able to discipline the sheriff, who is an elected
official. Only voters can remove the sheriff from office.

Also, Huntsman may not have complete access to personnel records deemed
confidential under the Peace Officersc Bill of Rights.

To get around that, county counsel John Krattli had suggested the inspector
general have an attorney-client relationship with the board and the sheriff. But
Huntsman is reluctant to do that because the information would become
privileged.

cUltimately, my marching orders are to see that the public finds out when
therecs a problem,c Huntsman said. cI donct have any other tools.c

cDoes that mean I can just go blab everything I learn? Not necessarily,c he
added. cWe all want to be outraged, to bring down somebody c Icve been doing
that for years c but if we can have positive change that doesnct involve
catching people but actually gets them to sign on to the idea not to commit
crime in the first place, thatcs better.c

Huntsman said if ca little more punchc is needed, he might reach out to the
Civil Grand Jury, District Attorneycs Office, or the FBI.

Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky does not see the inspector general as a cpunitive
institution.c

cThis is really an investment in transparency and oversight to identify issues
before they become big issues that could cost the county millions of dollars,c
he said. cIf they are already big issues, then the job is to shine a light on
them and, through persuasion as well as legal tools, force change in the
Sheriffcs Department.c

cThe inspector general is not going to be institutionally powerful, but with
subpoena powers and investigative powers, it can certainly drive the news
coverage,c CalState Northridge political science professor Tom Hogen-Esch said.

cTheycre going to have bring him front and center,c agreed ACLU legal director
Peter Eliasberg.

The Los Angeles Police Department has had an inspector general for more than 20
years, recommended by the Christopher Commission after the Rodney King beating
and the LA Riots.

US Attorney Andre Birotte, who office filed the charges against the 18 deputies
last week, used to be the inspector general for the LAPD.

Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas believes a civilian oversight commission should be
created to hear Huntsmancs reports, as the Board of Supervisors is csimply too
busyc to provide effective oversight.

Supervisor Gloria Molina estimated the failure to rein in abuses at the
Sheriffcs Department cost county taxpayers $37 million in litigation expenses in
2011-2012. That covers only the settlements, and doesnct include lawyersc fees.

Huntsman admits his initial reaction when offered the job was to reject it.

cBut right after I said cno,c I said cyes,c because I realized, itcs an
obligation,c Huntsman said. cI got into this job to serve the public, and herecs
an opportunity to have an impact on the entire criminal justice system in our
county.c

cUsually, by the time a prosecutor shows up, you canct undo the damage thatcs
already been done,c he said. cThis would be a wonderful opportunity to avoid the
damage in the first place.c

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             186 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday

Buchholz put on DL

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 513 words


The Boston Red Sox have placed right-hander Clay Buchholz on the 15-day disabled
list and called up left-hander Andrew Miller from Triple-A Pawtucket.

Sports Wire

Buchholz's strained lower back had been bothering him for a few starts.

Miller signed as a minor league free agent during the offseason. He is scheduled
to start today against San Diego. He was 3-3 with a 2.47 ERA in 13 games -- 12
starts -- with Pawtucket.

Buchholz is 6-3 with a 3.48 ERA. He is coming off a career-best 17-7 record in
2010.

Albert Pujols sprained his left wrist trying to make a tag at first base, but
the St. Louis Cardinals recovered to beat the Kansas City Royals, 5-4, on Skip
Schumaker's ninth-inning homer.

Pujols was injured in the sixth and the three-time NL MVP left the game. He will
be evaluated further today, an off day for St. Louis.

Wilson Betemit hit a chopper up the middle off Cardinals starter Jamie Garcia.
Second baseman Pete Kozma backhanded the ball and made a jump-throw to first,
pulling Pujols off the bag. As the slugger tried for a tag, Betemit ran into his
glove hand and Pujols went down to the ground in pain.

Pujols, hitting .279 this year, was 3 for 3 with his 17th home run.

Florida Marlins manager Edwin Rodriguez unexpectedly resigned with his team on a
nine-game losing streak, frustrated with his last-place club after less than one
year on the job.

Bench coach Brandon Hyde managed the Marlins against the Tampa Bay Rays on
Sunday, but the club will begin a search for an interim manager.

Rodriguez, the first Puerto Rican-born manager in major league history, said it
was a difficult decision to leave, given the "positive way the organization is
moving, a new ballpark next season and the young core of players."

COLLEGE BASEBALL

Virginia defeats Cal

John Hicks' RBI single in the seventh inning broke a scoreless tie and Virginia
went on to beat California, 4-1, in the College World Series in Omaha, Neb.

Danny Hultzen and Tyler Wilson were within an out of combining for the first CWS
shutout in five years before Chad Bunting dropped a run-scoring single over
shortstop with two out in the ninth. Hicks' one-out hit into center ended the
longest scoreless CWS game in 24 years, and Steve Proscia followed with a
sacrifice fly.

GENERAL

Riot role apology

A rising star on Canada's junior water polo team has apologized for his role in
the Stanley Cup riot.

A sobbing Nathan Kotylak told a Vancouver TV station that what he did was "dumb"
and he's prepared to face the consequences.

He surrendered to police after social media sites posted pictures showing a
youth stuffing a burning rag into the gas tank of a police car. The violence in
Vancouver followed the Canucks' loss to the Boston Bruins on Wednesday.

Water Polo Canada did not identify Kotlak but said it suspended a player facing
allegations stemming from the riot.

Jermaine Jones scored in the 49th minute and Clint Dempsey added a goal in the
80th in the United States' 2-0 victory over Jamaica in the CONCACAF Gold Cup
quarterfinals.

On Wednesday in Houston, the United States will face the Panama-El Salvador
winner.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             187 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                            November 11, 2011 Friday

Wrightsville man gets federal prison over body armor

BYLINE: GREG GROSS The York Dispatch

SECTION: PEOPLE; News

LENGTH: 452 words


A Wrightsville man with prior convictions for making terroristic threats was
sentenced to federal prison Thursday for illegally possessing body armor.

Michael Wayne Cook was sentenced to six months in prison and four months of home
confinement, according to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Harrisburg.

Saying he was "railroaded," Cook, a self-proclaimed racist and a member of the
neo-fascist group the Silver Shirts, said he was targeted by authorities because
of his beliefs.

"I believe it is absolutely political. I will be a political prisoner," he said.
"I'm completely outraged. My constitutional rights have been violated."

In 2002, Cook was responsible for bringing a white-supremacist leader to York
City; the event ultimately resulted in a riot.

U.S. Attorney Peter J. Smith said Cook purchased a ballistic vest at a gun show
in Harrisburg in March 2007. Because Cook has prior convictions of making
terroristic threats and destroying property, federal law prohibits him from
owning body armor.

A jury found Cook guilty after 30 minutes of deliberation following a one-day
trial in Harrisburg in April.

Vest: Since he was charged nearly a year ago, Cook, former head of the York
branch of the Creativity Movement, a splinter group of the now-defunct World
Church of the Creator, has contended he thought the ballistics vest was actually
a flak vest.

He said he sold the vest shortly after purchasing it.

In a sentencing memorandum, federal public defender Thomas Thornton, Cook's
attorney, argued his client was trapped by the government into buying the vest.

Cook said he was enticed by a FBI informant to buy the vest. The informant also
tried to persuade Cook to buy guns over the period of a couple months but Cook
refused to buy one, Thornton wrote.

Cook is not allowed to own a firearm.

Thornton argued in the memorandum, which requested Cook be given probation, that
the vest wasn't bulletproof.

"Michael Cook bought a shell for a bulletproof vest and did not purchase any
ceramic plates which would make it bulletproof," Thornton wrote.

Plot: However, U.S. Attorney Peter J. Smith argued in his sentencing memorandum,
which requested Cook be sentenced to 10 to 16 months in prison, that the vest
was a tool of revenge.

Smith claimed Cook planned to purchase assault rifles and build an underground
militant wing of the Creativity Movement to take revenge on people responsible
for the prosecution and imprisonment of Matthew Hale, one of the national
Creativity Movement's leaders.

Hale was convicted in 2004 of soliciting an undercover FBI agent to assassinate
a federal judge and is serving a 40-year prison sentence.

Cook said he plans to appeal his case.

-- Reach Greg Gross at 505-5434 or ggross@yorkdispatch.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             188 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday

Profile: Inspector General for troubled LA Sheriff s Department

BYLINE: Christina Villacorte

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1035 words


The Los Angeles County Sheriff s Department already has the FBI, the ACLU and
several county agencies scrutinizing its every move   especially its management
of the jails   but it s about to get one more set of eyes over its shoulder.

For the first time ever, the agency will be placed under the oversight of an
inspector general who is supposed to have  unfettered access  to its records,
video footage, witness interviews, facilities and personnel.

Max Huntsman, currently the second-in-command at the District Attorney s Public
Integrity Division, will assume the $204,423-a-year position Jan. 2.

He was in the headlines most recently for taking down Angela Spaccia, the
disgraced former deputy city manager in the city of Bell.

His appointment comes as the department is facing intense criticism over
allegations of abuses by deputies in the jails. Last week, the FBI charged 18
sheriff s deputies with a range of felonies that include abusing inmates and
jail visitors, intimidating an FBI agent and other offenses.

After 10 years of prosecuting officials like former LA City Commissioner Leland
Wong, former Vernon Mayor Leonis Malburg, and former Los Angeles Memorial
Coliseum general manager Patrick Lynch, Huntsman said he has the skills to
break open public agencies and figure out what s happening in them when
something has gone wrong.

But the thing I learned the most is to not back down from a fight,  Huntsman
added.  I m not scared about the consequences   I m going to do what needs to be
done.

The county Board of Supervisors created the Office of Inspector General upon the
recommendation of the blue ribbon Commission on Jail Violence. In addition to
Huntsman, it would have about two dozen staffers.

Commission general counsel Richard Drooyan explained the group  felt there
needed to be come comprehensive independent oversight of the Sheriff s
Department, and a transparent process whereby reports would be made publicly to
hold the department accountable.

Currently, Special Counsel Merrick Bobb, the Office of Independent Review, the
Office of the Ombudsman, and the American Civil Liberties Union provide
oversight of the department in one form or another.

Their responsibilities would be consolidated under the Office of Inspector
General, which will conduct unannounced inspections of the jails; oversee inmate
complaints; review uses of force; conduct audits and independent investigations;
and report to the board.

Sheriff Lee Baca s spokesman, Steve Whitmore, welcomed the appointment.

Huntsman has a proven track record when it comes to public corruption and
shining a light on the inner workings of law enforcement,  Whitmore said.  The
sheriff is prepared to extend every courtesy for full access to help him succeed
in his new (position).

Whitmore said it was Baca who originally proposed the idea of an inspector
general.

Don t forget that one of the first things he said when he was first elected in
1998 was that he wanted an inspector general to oversee the jails, but it didn t
get traction at the time.

There are significant limitations to the inspector general s authority, however.

Huntsman would not be able to discipline the sheriff, who is an elected
official. Only voters can remove the sheriff from office.

Also, Huntsman may not have complete access to personnel records deemed
confidential under the Peace Officers  Bill of Rights.

To get around that, county counsel John Krattli had suggested the inspector
general have an attorney-client relationship with the board and the sheriff. But
Huntsman is reluctant to do that because the information would become
privileged.

Ultimately, my marching orders are to see that the public finds out when there s
a problem,  Huntsman said.  I don t have any other tools.

Does that mean I can just go blab everything I learn? Not necessarily,  he
added.  We all want to be outraged, to bring down somebody   I ve been doing
that for years   but if we can have positive change that doesn t involve
catching people but actually gets them to sign on to the idea not to commit
crime in the first place, that s better.

Huntsman said if  a little more punch  is needed, he might reach out to the
Civil Grand Jury, District Attorney s Office, or the FBI.

Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky does not see the inspector general as a  punitive
institution.

This is really an investment in transparency and oversight to identify issues
before they become big issues that could cost the county millions of dollars,
he said.  If they are already big issues, then the job is to shine a light on
them and, through persuasion as well as legal tools, force change in the Sheriff
s Department.

The inspector general is not going to be institutionally powerful, but with
subpoena powers and investigative powers, it can certainly drive the news
coverage,  CalState Northridge political science professor Tom Hogen-Esch said.

They re going to have bring him front and center,  agreed ACLU legal director
Peter Eliasberg.

The Los Angeles Police Department has had an inspector general for more than 20
years, recommended by the Christopher Commission after the Rodney King beating
and the LA Riots.

US Attorney Andre Birotte, who office filed the charges against the 18 deputies
last week, used to be the inspector general for the LAPD.

Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas believes a civilian oversight commission should be
created to hear Huntsman s reports, as the Board of Supervisors is  simply too
busy  to provide effective oversight.

Supervisor Gloria Molina estimated the failure to rein in abuses at the Sheriff
s Department cost county taxpayers $37 million in litigation expenses in
2011-2012. That covers only the settlements, and doesn t include lawyers  fees.

Huntsman admits his initial reaction when offered the job was to reject it.

But right after I said  no,  I said  yes,  because I realized, it s an
obligation,  Huntsman said.  I got into this job to serve the public, and here s
an opportunity to have an impact on the entire criminal justice system in our
county.

Usually, by the time a prosecutor shows up, you can t undo the damage that s
already been done,  he said.  This would be a wonderful opportunity to avoid the
damage in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             192 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Muslim Brotherhood Demands Egyptian Military Relinquish Power Early

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1030 words


CAIRO -- The Muslim Brotherhood demanded Thursday that Egypt's military rulers
cede control of the government, stepping closer to a long-anticipated
confrontation between the ruling generals and the Islamist-dominated Parliament.

In a statement on its Web site and a television interview with one of its senior
leaders, the Brotherhood called for the military to allow the replacement of the
current prime minister and cabinet with a new coalition government formed by
Parliament, which would amount to an immediate handover of power.

The Brotherhood, the formerly outlawed Islamist group that now dominates
Parliament, had previously said it was content to wait for the June deadline by
which the generals had pledged to turn over power, which they seized with the
ouster of President Hosni Mubarak last year. And signs were accumulating of a
general accord between the military and the Brotherhood over the terms of a new
constitution expected to be ratified before the handover. The Brotherhood's
shift comes on the eve of the Feb. 11 anniversary of Mr. Mubarak's downfall,
when other activists around the country have called for a general strike to
demand the end of military rule -- a call the Brotherhood has previously
resisted.

But the group is also changing its position at a time when the
military-controlled government appears overwhelmed by domestic and foreign
crises, including a deadly soccer riot last week followed by five days of
violent protests, a standoff with Washington that has imperiled billions of
dollars in United States aid and international loans, and an economy teetering
on collapse.

''We must start the formation of a coalition government immediately, to deal in
particular with the economic situation and the state of lawlessness in this
homeland,'' Khairat el Shater, deputy to the Brotherhood's Supreme Guide and one
of its most influential figures, said in the online statement, which quoted an
interview he gave to Al Jazeera.

Mr. Shater pointed in particular to the government's repeated use of deadly
force against civilian protesters.

''Dealing with the demonstrators violently is a mistake, a sign of weakness and
mismanagement by the Ministry of Interior,'' he said.

The Brotherhood is effectively agreeing with street protesters and liberals on
the need for the military to leave power at once. But in the polarized dynamics
of Egypt's nascent democracy, liberal party leaders said Thursday that they were
unwilling to form a coalition with the Islamists even to remove the military.

''The liberals would prefer to be in opposition to monitor and leave it to the
Brotherhood to implement their control,'' said Emad Gad, a leader of the liberal
Social Democratic Party.

At stake in the debate over the timing of the handover is who will hold power
during the drafting of a constitution and election of a president. The military
has previously sought guidelines giving itself permanent political powers and
immunities, and its opponents fear that it could again try to shape the
constitutional process for its own benefit.

In the early rounds of elections, Brotherhood leaders briefly threatened to
challenge the generals over control of the government. But later, signs of
accord emerged with the ruling military on delicate subjects like limiting
disclosure of the defense budget.

Now, though, the military-led government appears paralyzed by crises. The
generals have seemed unwilling or unable to resolve a dispute with Washington
over criminal charges filed against 16 Americans, including the son of a cabinet
official, in a politically charged case over foreign financing of nonprofit
groups. (Egypt initially said that 19 Americans were being charged, but the
United States says only 16 are citizens; of those, at least six are still in
Egypt and barred from traveling.)

The dispute prompted President Obama and Congressional leaders to threaten to
cancel Egypt's $1.5 billion in annual American aid. Diplomats say American
opposition could also make it harder for Egypt to obtain billions of dollars in
badly needed foreign currency from the International Monetary Fund, as well as
other international lenders and donors.

Last week, the deadliest soccer riot in Egypt's history and the bloodiest in the
world in at least 15 years left more than 73 fans dead. Many blamed the police
for failing to prevent the violence, and tens of thousands of protesters swarmed
Interior Ministry buildings in Cairo and Suez.

But 15 more were killed as a result of the response by the police, who used tear
gas, birdshot, rubber bullets and live ammunition. Since beginning a crackdown
in October, the security forces have killed more than 100 street protesters.

The soccer riot and its aftermath prove ''that security in the country is in a
state of grave instability,'' a Brotherhood spokesman, Mahmoud Ghuzlan, said.

But the advent of a democratically elected Parliament has made it possible for
the chamber to form a coalition government with the legitimacy to crack down on
the disorder. ''If the Parliament formed a government that represents the
people, it could take harsh measures that would deter anyone who might dare to
repeat such disasters,'' Mr. Ghuzlan said.

He said the Brotherhood had changed its position toward the interim government
in part because of the report of a parliamentary fact-finding mission. Lawmakers
who visited the morgue found that the interior minister had lied to lawmakers
when he said his officers never used birdshot or other ammunition against the
demonstrators.

''He didn't say the truth,'' Mr. Ghuzlan said, explaining that the Muslim
Brotherhood's parliamentary leaders were now moving toward a no-confidence vote
to remove the interior minister. It could be a first test of strength between
the elected Parliament and military leaders.

But he said the group did not seek a confrontation, and noted that the current
interim Constitution backed by the military allowed it to name a new cabinet
even after a parliamentary vote of no confidence.

If the military council refuses to let Parliament name a new cabinet,
Brotherhood leaders said, they may seek a no-confidence vote on the whole
government, or take to the streets.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                             193 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grenade Attack in Kenya Kills Police Officer

BYLINE: By REUBEN KYAMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 376 words


NAIROBI, Kenya -- A Kenyan police officer died and 13 others were wounded late
on Tuesday in a grenade attack during riots in Mombasa over the killing of a
radical cleric, a senior police official said.

It was the second day of deadly unrest over the killing of the influential
cleric, Sheik Aboud Rogo Mohammed, who had been accused by the United States and
the United Nations of fund-raising and helping to recruit fighters for the
Shabab, the Somali militant group that has pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda. Mr.
Mohammed was shot dead on Monday by unknown gunmen, the police said.

Just a few moments after the cleric was shot, riots broke out in Mombasa,
leading to at least one death. Denying any involvement in the cleric's killing,
the police said unidentified assailants had sprayed Mr. Mohammed's car with
bullets, killing him instantly. But many Muslims reject the official explanation
and accuse the police of the murder.

On Tuesday, protests over the cleric's death continued, with attackers hurling a
grenade at a police truck in Mombasa, Kenya's second largest city.

Mr. Mohammed was facing charges in Kenya of orchestrating terrorist attacks.
Last month, the United States Treasury Department imposed sanctions against him,
saying he had rallied followers to fight in Somalia, raised money for the Shabab
and ''facilitated the travel to Somalia of numerous Kenyan recruits'' for the
insurgent group. A committee of the United Nations Security Council also imposed
sanctions on him last month, citing Mr. Mohammed's ''campaign to promote
violence throughout East Africa.''

His death has set off protests and lawlessness across Mombasa, with Muslim
youths burning churches in a city popular among foreign tourists.

Speaking from Mombasa, Ben Rawlence, a senior researcher of the New York-based
Human Rights Watch condemned the killings.

''We condemn the assassination of the Mohammed Rogo and the killings of the
officers,'' he said. He called on the police to exercise restraint as they dealt
with the rioters.

Kenya's prime minister, Raila Odinga, also condemned the killing of Mr.
Mohammed, calling it a heinous act.

PHOTO: A riot police officer in Mombasa, Kenya, on Tuesday as protests over a
cleric's death continued. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/29/world/africa/grenade-attack-in-kenya-kills-pol
ice-officer-as-riots-rage.html

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                             194 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

In Poor Margins of Paris, New Recipe for Success Is Local

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Stefania Rousselle contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1629 words


PARIS -- Mourad Benamer remembers the day his parents first visited the sleek
new sushi restaurant he had just opened near the Champs-Élysées. Against all
odds, Mr. Benamer had broken out of the rough suburb, or banlieue, where he grew
up in a family of poor Moroccan immigrants just northeast of Paris, and hit on a
formula that would soon turn into a business success beyond his dreams.

''We came from a place where there was injustice and a lack of opportunity,''
Mr. Benamer, 36, recalled of his banlieue, Bondy. But there he was in the heart
of tourist Paris, on a winter afternoon in 2007, with his mother pointing
incredulously to truffle-and-foie-gras maki being rolled out to patrons at Eat
Sushi, which since then has expanded into a chain of 38 restaurants across
France.

''How did you manage to do all this?'' she asked.

His answer was simple: he did it on his own.

''I was not going to let this feeling that we have no chance keep me closed
inside the banlieue,'' Mr. Benamer recalled recently.

For decades, the disadvantaged suburbs that ring Paris and other large French
cities have been places of privation, plagued by discrimination and poverty.
France has long vowed to improve the plight of the banlieue populations, often
Muslim and primarily people with Arab or sub-Saharan African family roots in the
French colonial past. Despite pledges by Nicolas Sarkozy when he was president
to address economic and social inequality after a series of violent riots in
2005 and 2007, though, critics say little has changed.

That is why a new generation of people like Mr. Benamer are trying to turn the
suburbs into incubators for entrepreneurs, who see using their own initiative as
the only way up and out of the banlieues, which are home to an estimated 10
percent of France's 63.7 million people.

Through persistent lobbying, banlieue entrepreneurs have been founding ''angel''
investment funds, persuading big French companies like AXA Insurance and BNP
Paribas to contribute seed money that fuel start-ups ranging from trash removal
to taxi fleets. It was one such fund that recently helped finance the national
expansion of Mr. Benamer's Eat Sushi chain.

No one can yet quantify the new businesses emerging from this movement, or
measure its success. But the activity is occurring largely outside the sphere of
the French state.

''If we wait for the government to do something, people will just remain
stuck,'' Mr. Benamer said. ''If we want things to improve, we have to do it
ourselves.''

As part of the self-help effort, banlieue-based organizations that promote
ethnic diversity have been aggressive about placing minorities into mentoring
and jobs programs at French companies that as little as a decade ago routinely
rejected applicants with non-French names.

''Things are changing,'' said Majid El Jarroudi, a consultant of Moroccan
origin, who grew up in the Paris banlieue of Montreuil.

Mr. Jarroudi, 36, started his career operating a small restaurant. He founded an
organization, Adive, to assist banlieue entrepreneurs after visiting the United
States and marveling at how much easier it seemed for minorities to move ahead.

Attitudes have shifted slowly in France, he said, but these days, ''there is a
growing recognition that the banlieues should not be seen as a place to fear,
but as a source of dynamism, full of people who are eager to work and to
succeed.''

Mr. Benamer is a case in point. One of the youngest in a family of 10 children,
with illiterate parents, he grew up in the gritty Bondy suburb, which was
engulfed in the 2005 and 2007 riots, although he and his family avoided the
trouble. After getting a vocational degree when he was 18, he started a small
sandwich business with his younger brother, Yahia. Working 13-hour days, they
were quickly selling more than 2,000 sandwiches a day to local colleges.

Soon, they set their sights on takeout sushi, a market in which Mr. Benamer saw
greater potential. In 2006, the brothers co-founded Eat Sushi, with a flagship
outlet in the heart of Paris. Last year, an angel investment fund, Citizen
Capital, took a 30 percent stake, with plans to double by 2015 the number of
stores and sales that last year topped 20 million euros (about $26 million).

Today, Eat Sushi employs 550 people in cities and banlieues around France in a
work force, including managers, with origins in 30 different countries.

''Look at us -- we're Moroccans selling Japanese sushi to the French,'' Mr.
Benamer, now married with a child, said on a recent weekend, sitting in his
Champs-Élysées restaurant beneath a wall covered with Warhol-style images of a
geisha. ''If we had allowed ourselves to be stigmatized, France would lose out
-- on good sushi, yes, but also on the hundreds of jobs we are creating.''

Since his election as president a year ago, François Hollande has vowed to
create jobs and improve education in distressed banlieues, where unemployment
averages 22 percent (compared with 10.5 percent nationally) and youth
joblessness is above 30 percent.

On Tuesday, the French parliament passed sweeping measures to overhaul the
nation's notoriously rigid labor market to make it easier for employers to hire
and fire.

But the banlieues remain a special challenge. Mr. Hollande announced a plan in
March to set aside as much as 180 million euros, or $235 million, in tax breaks
for businesses that hire young people from disadvantaged suburban areas. Critics
in the banlieues say that instead of subsidizing jobs outside their
neighborhoods, France should be encouraging entrepreneurs to create jobs
locally.

The government has also set up a program, Talents des Cités, that awards cash
prizes to innovative young entrepreneurs. But few think that the awards -- up to
7,000 euros -- add up to anything more than votes of confidence.

As Mr. Hollande's popularity plummets, and as he struggles to extract all of
France from the economic doldrums, a state solution to the economic problems of
the banlieues may remain elusive. France has nothing corresponding to the Small
Business Administration in the United States. And banks, which have
traditionally shied from business loans in the banlieues, have pulled back even
more as Europe's long-running debt crisis tightens credit throughout the euro
zone.

In some cases, the French government itself is seen as throwing up roadblocks.

Last year, a pledge by Qatar to invest 50 million euros in start-up funds for
the banlieues generated hundreds of inquiries from hopeful entrepreneurs, said
Leila Leghmara, vice president of the nonprofit diversity group Aneld, which
lobbied Qatar for some of the money.

But the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignation, the French investment agency, plans
to direct the money to small and medium-size businesses beyond just those in the
banlieues, after criticism from the French far right that Qatari money risked
being used to ''Islamize'' young people.

In an interview, Laurent Vigier, the director of international affairs at the
French investment agency, denied that such criticisms had played a role. He said
that the parties involved had decided that the Qatari bequest would be better
used to stoke the broader economy. ''It was an obvious choice for the French
state and for Qatar,'' Mr. Vigier said.

But Ms. Leghmara said Muslims in the suburbs interpreted the policy differently.
''When they want to integrate,'' she said, ''they are reminded that they are not
entrepreneurs, but Islamists who can't integrate.''

It did not calm those resentments when Qatar's ambassador to France, Mohammed
al-Kuwari, told the French news media afterward that the funds were never meant
to focus on the banlieues.

Whatever the original intent, Mr. Benamer said such episodes could only raise
tension in areas with high unemployment, where many people still feel
marginalized. While French society is changing the way it views people like him,
''there is still precariousness and injustice,'' he said.

''Those doing the discriminating need to understand that they are contributing
to the next revolt,'' Mr. Benamer said.

For those seeking a path out, the road remains rocky. In France over all, one in
two businesses folds after five years. But in the banlieues, half of all new
businesses close within three years. Self-help, it seems, can go only so far.

Raoul Sodjinou, a 41-year-old native of the West African country of Benin,
pursued his dream of setting up a cosmetics boutique for dark-skinned women in
Saint-Denis, another banlieue north of Paris that has been shaken by the riots.

Energetic and determined, Mr. Sodjinou in 2008 obtained a loan of 300,000 euros
from Business Angels des Cités, a banlieue-based investment fund, to open what
he hoped would be the first of 30 stores.

But Mr. Sodjinou lacked exposure to the broader French business culture and
access to coaching and guidance, and his inexperience plagued him from the
start. He situated his shop at the wrong end of a Métro exit, and the boutique
attracted little foot traffic. And in a neighborhood with limited spending
power, the 16 euro eyeliners and other premium products he chose to stock were
simply too expensive.

With sales well below his projections, he said Business Angels was now wary of
lending him additional money to relocate.

''I'm still asking myself, how will I make it,'' Mr. Sodjinou said. But he
refuses to give up. ''Coming from the banlieue and from a modest background gave
me a huge energy,'' he said. ''Those who say stop -- that's not me.''

Back in his sushi shop, where the phone rang constantly with delivery orders,
Mr. Benamer said the only way for people from the banlieues to get ahead was to
forge ahead.

''The government has a responsibility, yes,'' he said. ''But it's up to us to
make the change. If we don't send that message to others, then who will?''

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/15/business/global/in-pariss-banlieues-new-recipe
-for-success-is-local.html

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 2013



CORRECTION:

A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about entrepreneurs in the poor
suburbs of Paris misspelled the name of one such suburb. It is La Courneuve, not
La Corneuve.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: La Corneuve, north of Paris. The jobless rate in the suburbs is
twice the national rate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGNES DHERBEYS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL
HERALD TRIBUNE)
Raoul Sodjinou, above, owner of a makeup and skin care store in St. Denis, with
an employee, Josanny Aline Adelon. Mourad Benamer, left, founded Eat Sushi, a
chain of sushi restaurants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGNES DHERBEYS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL
HERALD TRIBUNE
 BRUNO LEVY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company


                             195 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Journal

                           December 18, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A Pick of the day

SECTION: CHRISTMAS TV GUIDE;FEATURES; Pg. 44,45

LENGTH: 239 words


Mrs Brown's Boys (9.30xpm) A hypnotist is booked to provide the entertainment at
the triplets' baptism - and Agnes soon finds herself under his spell. Meanwhile,
the matriarch's kitchen is falling apart - but that turns out to be the least of
her problems when son Mark delivers some heartbreaking news. Gary Barlow &
Friends (9.00pm) The singer-songwriter performs in a one-off musical spectacular
at Manchester Apollo. Comedian Peter Kay, actor James Corden, Take That bandmate
Mark Owen, pop group JLS and fellow X Factor judge Nicole Scherzinger all join
in the fun in front of a sell-out audience.

Charlie Brooker's 2012 Wipe (10.00pm) The broadcaster takes a satirical look
back at the events of the past 12 months, including the Olympic Games, the
Queen's Diamond Jubilee, the jailing of members of Russian punk group Pussy Riot
and the US presidential election.

Celebrity Deal or No Deal (6.30pm) Joan Collins battles the Banker and tries to
guess the values of mystery boxes in an attempt to win up to £250,000 for her
chosen charity. The actress is joined by friends, family and some familiar faces
- Glynis Barber, Michael Brandon, Emma Samms, Helen Lederer and Lisa Maxwell.

World's Strongest Man 2012 (8.00pm) James Richardson presents action from the
final in Los Angeles, California, where the 10 competitors to have progressed
from their respective qualifying heats battled for the title. With interviews by
Bill Kazmaier.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             196 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            November 21, 2008 Friday

Bennellick warmed up and ready for action

BYLINE: PENINSULA LEAGUE PREMIER DIVISION

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 671 words


Player-manager Jamie Bennellick stands by for a rare start when Dartmouth AFC
visit Falmouth Town tomorrow in the Premier Division of the Carlsberg South West
Peninsula League.

He did treat himself to a run-out in this week's rearranged first round
Westinsure St Lukes Bowl tie in which the South Hams club lost 5-2 in extra time
against Elmore Town from the Toolstation Western League.

But it lasted only 45 minutes before Bennellick substituted himself at half-time
having started in midfield surrounded by a mixture of reserve and third team
players with the exception of first teamers Chris Harrity, Tom Comyn and
two-goal Robbie Bowker.

"In the circumstances, we did brilliantly to take the game into extra time,"
said Bennellick.

"However, the idea of giving most of the first team a rest hasn't worked out as
I'd planned. We still have a few injuries, and I'm having to include myself in
the squad."

Simon Lewcock (groin), Andy Widdicombe (hamstring) and Jon Rimmer are the
definite non-starters, with Rimmer staying at home while his wife is close to
having a baby.

And former Totnes & Dartington SC and Newton Abbot central defender Richard
Farkins is a fellow non-starter, despite making his debut in central defence
against Elmore following his recent move from Exmouth Town.

"It's a shame to be down to the bare bones, because we've been in cracking form
of late," said Bennellick.

"We beat St Blazey 4-1 in our last league game, and there's a sense of
togetherness flowing right through the club at the moment."

That sense of togetherness within Longcross is also behind Dartmouth's
reluctance to dip into their Reserve team pool so as to supplement the first
team squad .

"They have a Herald Cup quarter-final against Totnes and Dartington Reserves, so
it's important we don't disrupt them too much. After all, we want all our sides
to be challenging for trophies this season, not just the first team," said
Bennellick.

One of tomorrow's likely changes would see Comyn restored up front after three
matches in the heart of the defence while covering for injuries.

"He's been magnificent, but we may have to move him back up front," hinted
Bennellick.

Last week's three points restored Dartmouth among the championship favourites
having moved up to third in the table, a point behind second-placed Buckland
with two games in hand.

Bodmin remain the team to catch however, with a five point lead over Dartmouth
and a match in hand.

NEWTON Abbot Spurs entertain Launceston at the Recreation Ground having had an
unexpected week's break after last Saturday's game at Holsworthy was postopned.

Striker Gary Byrne and midfielder Scott McArthur were reassigned to the Reserves
in their 5-2 win at Chagford in the Premier Division of the South Devon League,
but the remainder of the squad were able to put their feet up.

Not that it's helped midfielder Nick Cousins in any way, for he's begun a three
game suspension. Or centre-half Kevin Dadd, who is unavailable.

On the plus side, Shaun Woodward has been given an extra week to get over an
abdominal strain, and Dave Pooley is also available having missed Spurs' last
game a fortnight ago when they lost 3-1 at Falmouth.

Spurs, in fact, have rarely got the better of Cornish sides this season, having
also lost their first clash against Launceston in a midweek game on the
Industrial Estate at Pennygillam earlier in the campaign.

"We played better in the second half, but I was just glad to get out of there
alive after going 3-0 down early on," recalled manager Chris Breslan.

"They ran riot with us for a time, and were one of the best sides we've played.
I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, but our performance should tell me
if we've moved on or not."

BUCKLAND Athletic aren't back in action until Tuesday when they entertain
Torpoint Athletic at Homers Heath (7.30).

In the meantime, the remainder of tomorrow's Premier Division programme takes
Liskeard Athletic to Ivybridge Town, Holsworthy to Plymouth Parkway, Tavistock
to Wadebridge Town and Saltash United to Witheridge.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                             197 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

USPTO grants trade mark "AMERICAN RIOT" to MOORE & BODE CIGARS, INC. (FLORIDA)

LENGTH: 76  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


MOORE & BODE CIGARS, INC. (FLORIDA), has been granted trademark (4671563) titled
as "AMERICAN RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 034. US 002 008 009 017. G & S: Cigars. FIRST USE: 20140405.

Filing Date: June 12, 2014

Date of registration: January 13, 2015

First Use in Commerce: 05-04-2014

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             199 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 11, 2015 Monday

USPTO grants trade mark "RASCAL RIOT" to Brazee, Tammi L (INDIVIDUAL) (COLORADO)

LENGTH: 97  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Brazee, Tammi L (INDIVIDUAL) (COLORADO), has been granted trademark (4732865)
titled as "RASCAL RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 025. US 022 039. G & S: Baseball caps and hats; Beanies; Graphic
T-shirts; Hats; Hooded sweatshirts; Short-sleeved or long-sleeved t-shirts;
Sweatshirts; T-shirts. FIRST USE: 20140315.

Filing Date: February 22, 2014

Date of registration: May 05, 2015

First Use in Commerce: 15-03-2014

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             200 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

USPTO grants trade mark "MAD RIOT" to Mad Riot Entertainment LLC (NEW YORK)

LENGTH: 103  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Mad Riot Entertainment LLC (NEW YORK), has been granted trademark (4755201)
titled as "MAD RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 041. US 100 101 107. G & S: Development, production, and
distribution of motion pictures, short films, multi-media entertainment content,
television movies, television broadcast series or shows and plays. FIRST USE:
20140624.

Filing Date: October 15, 2014

Date of registration: June 16, 2015

First Use in Commerce: 24-06-2014

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             201 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              Global Times (China)

                            February 7, 2014 Friday

Sochi Games consolidate Sino-Russian ties

BYLINE: Global Times

LENGTH: 420  words


The Sochi Games have been politicized by Western public opinion and Russia is
facing the same scenario as China in 2008. Despite the March 14 Lhasa Riots, the
US and French presidents, George Bush and Nicolas Sarkozy, finally made it to
Beijing for the opening ceremony of the 28th Summer Olympics, and UK prime
minister Gordon Brown attended the closing ceremony. Russia has seen no serious
events in the past couple of years, but Western countries still keep attacking
the nation.Though Russia has generally accepted the Western political system
with a multi-party institution and democratic election, the West has long been
carping about it, which is indeed chilling. It is estimated that as of now,
there have been a multitude of news reports criticizing the Sochi Games by
revealing corruption cases, bureaucracy, abuses of public power, pessimistic
human rights, a degraded environment, media censorship, anti-gay laws, unfair
treatment to economic migrants, ethnic conflicts and other social quandaries in
Russia.The first warning Sochi 2014 has rendered China is that implementation of
"Western-style democracy" will not help reach a mood of détente with Western
nations, which adopt attitudes toward big powers like China and Russia in line
with their geopolitical interests.Xi's attendance at the Games in no way implies
that China is in confrontation with the West.

In actuality, the aggregate power of both Beijing and Moscow is still far less
than that of the Western world. Nevertheless, bilateral cooperation between
Beijing and Moscow is highly resilient. Political dynamics determines that the
two global strategic powers are unlikely to be isolated, so it is doomed to fail
when the West attempts to separate China from Russia. Xi's presence at the 2014
Sochi Games constitutes an unconventional protocol in China's diplomatic
endeavors, but this is also anticipated by strategic analysts. This represents
Beijing's support for Russian President Vladimir Putin, reflecting a certain
feature of Sino-Russian relations.The bilateral ties are enjoying the best time
ever in history though they have embarked on different paths of political
development. Meanwhile, China's relations with Vietnam and North Korea are far
more sensitive, fully showcasing that state-to-state relations are so intricate
that it is naïve to view them from the perspective of ideology. The Sino-Russian
friendship is a significant pillar of world peace and balanced global power,
which is further proved by the Sochi Winter Games.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1448


                          Copyright 2014 Global Times.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             202 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

Korea at Tipping Point of Multicultural Society

LENGTH: 853 words


Traditionally homogeneous, Korea is now rapidly plunging into multiculturalism.
Korea's 1.1 million resident foreigners total 2 percent of the population, but
everyone agrees that Korea is bound to get more immigrants.

Conservative estimates are that foreigners will make up 5 percent of the Korean
population by 2020, 8 percent by 2030, and 10 percent by 2050.

This diversification of Korea is fueled by several trends:

- Korea's population is aging, and Korea's birthrate is declining. Simply
stated, Korea needs to "import" workers.

- Korea's improving education and economy pushes more Korean workers away from
manual labor jobs, which are increasingly open to immigrants.

- Globalization is bringing in more educators and business people.

- Korea is becoming an educational hot-spot for Asia, with universities actively
recruiting international students.

- One in seven marriages in Korea is multicultural. In some rural provinces,
that ratio is as high as one in three.

These trends are likely to increase in pace and magnitude. Korea may diversify
even faster than the experts are predicting. My unprofessional guess is that the
multiethnic and foreign population here will reach 5-10 percent by 2020, 15-20
percent by 2030, and 20-25 percent by 2050.

Historically, every nation that has experienced mass immigration has also
experienced a variety of racial conflicts, sometimes exploding into mass riots.
The U.S., France and Australia have experienced intense tensions relating to
immigration within the past few years.

Korea is not immune to ethnic conflicts. The National Assembly is debating its
first ever "antiracism" bill. This legislation has drawn wide ranging discussion
and protests. Some fear the competition for manual labor jobs that follows mass
immigration. Others fear the "dilution" of Korea's homogeneity.

Conflict over interracial couples recently surged through the news. With
increasing immigration, multicultural coupling is bound to increase.

Some people are calling Korea's changing demographics a "time bomb." Some
cultural analysts expect a variety of explosive conflicts centered on themes of
ethnicity and cultural change.

Think about the huge protests about mad cow disease involving U.S. beef imports
and the takeover of the Ssangyong auto-plant by laid-off autoworkers. Now
imagine what will happen if huge numbers of Korean workers lose their jobs
because Korean companies pay half as much to workers from Southeast Asia.

As these trends converge, a mighty river of cultural change is at Korea's
doorstep. In many ways, Korea has already passed the tipping point on
diversification. Korea's demographics demand diversification. Korea will become
multicultural. That is unstoppable.

How Korea will proceed into this diversification is still very much undecided.
The only remaining question is: What kind of multicultural society will Korea
become?

Will Korea embrace diversity and globalization as a cultural and economic boon?
Or will Korea take a defensive and fear-based approach, leaning back into
isolationism?

Diversification is unavoidable. Korea and Koreans must choose between
diversifying well (wisely with intentional strategies) and diversifying poorly
(accidentally or haphazardly).

Let me propose a few simple steps to guide Korea well in this new adventure of
multiculturalism.

First, give special attention to the institutions of Korea that are already the
most diverse: universities, factories and multicultural churches. These three
institutions are early indicators of Korea's future. The conflicts, tensions and
successes of these institutions are likely to be mirrored in the larger society
as diversity gains momentum.

Second, take steps now to protect the weak. In cultures around the world,
minorities experience discrimination, prejudice and injustice. Korea's
long-standing homogeneity makes it especially susceptible to these problems.
Korea needs to implement public education campaigns and laws to protect
minorities.

Third, individual Koreans can be cultural trend setters. When you see
discrimination or cultural insensitivity, speak out. Kindly educate your peers
on the worth of all people and how they can interact more effectively with
people of different cultural backgrounds.

Finally, individuals and families can show hospitality to immigrants. Simple
acts (like sharing a meal together or offering assistance in the grocery store)
will help us all ease the shift into multiculturalism.

In his international bestselling book, "The Tipping Point," Malcom Gladwell
examines how small changes cause major cultural shifts.

Gladwell explains, "What happened is that [a] small number of people " started
behaving very differently, and that behavior somehow spread " Little changes had
big effects " changes that happened at the margin."

You - average readers - may not feel like you have the potential to effect much
change. Do not be deceived. You have great power! You can be part of Korea's
tipping point toward a healthy multicultural society. Little changes " little
discussions " small acts of hospitality " could tip Korea into healthy and
beautiful multiculturalism.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             203 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            February 17, 2014 Monday

On anti-black feelings in Korea

BYLINE: By Anthony C. Greene

LENGTH: 987 words


In the past few months, a number of media outlets have published English
articles detailing the issues that black people confront here in Korea. Although
the focus of these articles has been on black Americans, there have also been
mentions of discrimination against black Africans. In short, there have been
enough cases of anti-black discrimination that English media outlets here are
now beginning to cover the issue. The tone of the articles have been 'how can we
help solve this problem?' and 'what can we (non-Koreans) do to help change
Koreans' minds?' Simply put, the answer is 'nothing,' so do not waste valuable
time trying to figure out how to make people who hate you not hate you. That is
shifting the burden from the perpetrator to the victim - it is not the victim's
responsibility to change the perpetrator. This responsibility falls on the
shoulders of the perpetrators of hate and intolerance 100 percent.

If you aggregate the information in these articles, there is mention of
discrimination in hiring practices, denying qualified (college degree, TESOL or
TEFL certificate, experience) people of color with job opportunities because
hagwon or schools believe that if they hire these people parents will not send
their students to the school, and will not pay tuition, thus the schools will
cease to exist. If this is to be believed, that means that the schools are not
biased, but their clients and by extension, society is. Moreover, these articles
have cited that Koreans feel negative toward black people due to a preponderance
of factors, such as Confucianism, soldiers during and after the Korean War, the
1992 L.A. riots, the U.S. media's portrayal of blacks, and having an affinity
toward lighter skin due to Korea's feudal and strictly structured past during
the Joeseon kingdom.

While these reasons seem legitimate on the surface, when one deconstructs the
logic, or lack thereof, contained within these reasons, you realize that either
people are well-uneducated, intellectually lazy, blissfully ignorant, purposely
ignorant, or a combination of all of the above. Or, what is most likely the
case, people have decided that they are intellectually superior to others, and
anything negative about those they have decided they are better than can be used
to justify said discrimination. In other words, people believe that due to where
they were born, which group of people they were born into, or the color of their
skin, (all of which are not chosen but completely luck-based) they are better
than others. This is fundamentally illogical, so to argue against it with logic
would be a complete waste of time, since something so illogical is impossible to
truly defeat with intellect, sound reasoning, and logic, and the people who
believe this do not possess the intellectual prowess to understand what is being
said to them. Just like I, as an American, do not discriminate against male
Korean exchange students because of the Virginia Tech massacre, neither should
the same view be held for one member of a group's behavior being representative
of the whole. That makes absolutely no sense.

What is even more troubling is that in an era when the most powerful and famous
man in the world (President Barack Obama) the most famous golfer and athlete
(Tiger Woods) are all over media, actors such as Denzel Washington, Jaime Foxx,
Samuel L. Jackson, Will Smith, Morgan Freeman, Halle Berry, Laurence Fishburne
regularly grace the big and small screens, and jazz by greats like John
Coltrane, Miles Davis, and Grant Green are the soundtracks to the ubiquitous
coffee shops in Seoul, I find it impossible that people are still seeing
negative perceptions of blacks in the media. However, since we are in February,
which in the United States is Black History Month, I as an educated educator
will provide the general public and parents with a list of black people who have
made a difference on the world, so that they look them up, become less
intellectually dim, and understand that their ignorance is not only misguided,
but makes their country look like a deliberately ignorant and intolerant place.

For those unenlightened folks, as you wander through your day to day existence
please remember that: the Air Conditioner was invented by Frederick M. Jones in
1949, the bicycle frame by L.R. Johnson in 1899, the cellular phone by Henry T.
Sampson in 1971, the electric lamp bulb by Lewis Lattimer in 1882, the elevator
by Alexander Miles in 1862, the fire extinguisher by T. Marshall in 1872, the
fountain pen by W.B. Purvis in 1890, the golf tee by T. Grant in 1899, the gas
mask by Garrett Morgan in 1914, the guitar by Robert F. Fleming Jr. in 1886, the
refrigerator by J. Standard in 1891, the phone transmitter by Granville T. Woods
in 1884, and the traffic light by Garrett Morgan in 1923. What would our world
be without these people?

So, for those that believe in negative stereotypes, please remember that you
cannot ride a bike, cross an intersection with a traffic light, use a fire
extinguisher, turn on a lamp, hit a golf ball off of a tee, play a guitar, use a
refrigerator, or make a cell phone call without touching something that a black
person invented.

I hope those who hold these racist beliefs are changed, but if they are not,
history and the power of the spirit of mankind will pass you by and leave you in
the dark ages, much like Jesse Owens sprinting to four gold medals in 1936 in
Nazi Berlin, Tiger Woods winning the 1997 Master's on a formerly segregated golf
course in Augusta, Georgia, W.E.B. DuBo becoming the first black man to earn a
Ph.D. from Harvard, or in 2008 when Barrack Obama became the 44th president of
the United States. In short, hate could not stop black people in Africa or the
United States, and it certainly will not stop us here in Korea or anywhere else.

The writer is an English instructor in Seoul. He holds a Master of Science
degree in education.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             204 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

GAME ON: money playing for

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1740 words


Steve Kilgallon meets a pair of Kiwi kids hoping to cash in on the video gaming
boom

--------------------

MACK SMITH is good at school. His reports this year, his father says, are
excellent. He's good at classics, English, media studies. He's bright,
thoughtful, presents well. And at 17, he plans to quit school, move to Sydney
and become a professional video-game player. One local expert believes he could
earn a $100,000 salary almost instantly.

Smith would become New Zealand's first pro - although his friend Cameron Jones,
16, a year below him at Auckland's Western Springs high school, shares similar
aspirations - but this is no wild dream.

It's called e-sports, and it shares a lot of similarities with real sport: there
are professional coaches, training sessions, full-time commentators calling
games for the audience at home, packed stadia, players who peak in their late
20s and retire in their 30s. And like sport, there's money. Big money.

Prize pools of more than $US2m are not uncommon, winner's cheques of $1m are
becoming widespread and professional players earn six-figure salaries and
sponsorships. One company, Riot, is even planning a stadium in Los Angeles
purely to host e-games tournaments.

IN MAY, after furious lobbying by Riot, the US immigration service granted its
first P-1 "professional athlete" visa to an e-gamer, Canadian Danny "Shipthur"
Le. It allowed Lee to join the other members of his professional squad in Los
Angeles, where they play the adventure game League of Legends. The eight-team
league is filmed live, and streamed to 1.7 million viewers.

Dustin Beck, vice-president of Riot, told the LA Times: "We had to show this was
a profession. We had to make a case that this is just like Major League Baseball
or the National Hockey League."

Riot runs its own championship. Last year, at a sold-out University of Southern
California basketball stadium, the Taipei Assassins won the world title, and
$US1m; 8.2m viewers on Korean and Chinese TV and online watched it unfold.

The best-paid e-sport pro, Johnathan "Fatal1ty" Wendel, is presumed to have made
almost $500,000 in prize money alone, with sponsorship and online streaming
income on top of that.

It's not quite the same in New Zealand. Byron McLean, perhaps New Zealand's
best-ever gamer (he went to world championships for the game Counterstrike for
eight years from 2003) contrasts here and there by saying: "It's the difference
between New Zealand being a professional rugby playing nation and, say, the
American rugby team." Kiwi prize money ranges from $300 to $2,500.

Theo Martin, who organises and "shoutcasts" (commentates) local League of
Legends events, says: "There really isn't room for a person to create a future
in e-sports in New Zealand. When they win a tournament, where can they go next?"
The domestic scene, he says, isn't likely to start making money for anyone until
organisers themselves make money: "It's from an organisational standpoint rather
than anything else - when that happens it will happen very, very quickly. [But
for now] everything I do doesn't make me a cent. I just really enjoy it . . .
but I do need to get to a point to make money out of it if I want to continue."

But times are changing. McLean, 27, who "retired" in 2010 to focus on
stimulating the tiny New Zealand e-sports scene, says it doesn't mean Smith -
and then Jones - couldn't do it. "It's definitely possible," he says, "I think
we're getting to that stage."

He believes Smith has the ability to break through: "If anyone can do it in New
Zealand, you've got the right guy." McLean says Smith is unique in New Zealand
and "easily capable" of earning between $60,000 and $100,000 almost immediately.
"For most people, I wouldn't support them leaving school, but in Mack's case he
is particularly smart and he's got a unique opportunity to pursue that most
people never had. He'll be able to make a career of this."

There's a few reasons why the door is now opening for New Zealanders: modern
games are usually free to play, making accessibility easy. The big games
companies are bolstering their Oceania marketing budgets, and we can coat-tail
off the Australians. Individual players can build profile quickly by live
streaming. And we're not Koreans.

The Koreans and Swedes, reckons McLean, are the best because of their
early-adoption of internet cafes, making game playing both socially acceptable
and widely adopted. But they've also become ubiquitous. It's what Smith is
hoping for: non-Koreans may be less talented, but earn more because of their
appeal to foreign fans. "Players who aren't as good who pay attention to their
fans, have a lot of sponsors and are well marketed [can earn as much]," he says.
"Streaming" is another way of making money. This involves playing a practice
game while a webcam records your commentary over it. The hosting company cuts
the player a percentage of every sale. Jones says he's made a "decent amount"
from it and peaked at a few thousand viewers. There's other trappings of fame:
playground approaches from people he doesn't know, Facebook friend requests from
strangers, even people asking him to play the game under their handle to boost
their rating.

Girls? Not so much.

But whatever happens, Smith and Jones must go offshore, living in "team houses"
with their Australia-based pro squads. Both fly overseas on the sponsors' tab to
play tournaments - their next is in Sydney next month. "We are," says Mack
dismissively, "the New Zealand scene. There is no money in New Zealand. We have
to fly overseas to get anywhere."

In Australia, the money is beginning to flow. Mirko Gozzo moved to Sydney this
year to open Riot's Oceania office. Playing League of Legends off the company's
North American server was becoming frustrating for Kiwi and Aussie players
because it caused a 0.2s time lag - crucial during action sequences. "From a
financial point of view, it didn't make much sense to come over here," he says.
"But we had a very strong and vocal community who had always been neglected by
every game company, so we're thought 'we're going to do it' and it paid off. I
think we will see similar growth here [to overseas]." Already, he's paid out a
$20,000 cheque for this year's Australian champions.

Worldwide, the game is on season three, or its third year as a competitive
sport, and by season six, he says, there could be a full-time league in
Australia.

Riot, says Gozzo, is consistently "overwhelmed" by their game's growth. This
year's world final will be at the LA Lakers basketball stadium, and was sold out
inside an hour.

"When we created the game, we were not expecting such success; we knew a market
was there for it but we didn't expect it to become the most-played PC game in
the world," he explains. "But it did. And since then we just keep growing and
growing." Jones began playing League of Legends seriously only when Riot opened
up in Australia and he saw a career path ahead. Smith, similarly, had played his
game, Starcraft 2, for 18 months before he even realised there was a competitive
circuit.

Now they are, simply, obsessed. Jones says he cannot watch TV or movies - he
finds himself thinking about the game instead. "You really want to be better.
The game itself, playing the game, isn't that much fun. But being a better
player, seeing yourself improve and dominating the scene is exciting."

"Some days," says Smith gently, "I hate the game. But the will to improve is so
strong." He has no extra-curricular activities beyond gaming; Jones admits to
the occasional game of tennis, but sighs: "The amount of time I've played League
of Legends . . . I wouldn't even like to think about it." But he does, and
reckons he plays up to seven hours a day. Smith settles for five. But if there
is no school, then it becomes 10 to 12, some of it spent on what they call
"theorycrafting": watching and analysing other teams' performances.

Starcraft (in which Smith plays under the handle Petraeus, after the US army
general David Petraeus) is described as a "a military science-fiction, real-time
strategy" game involving three alien races. Gozzo says League of Legends is
"very appealing, very fast game, a lot of action" - to the uninitiated, it looks
like a bright, animated but not particularly sophisticated virtual world. Jones'
character, Captain Warbles (named for his cat) looks like a floppy blue dragon.

Most computer games have a shelflife. This new generation of games may have a
longer lasting appeal because they are effectively frameworks where the players
themselves create the real action. The similarity is often drawn with football:
the rules stay roughly the same, the game is never the same and always draws a
crowd.

MACK'S FATHER, Nick Smith, says his son has always breezed through school. His
parents are concerned about him leaving school, but are cautiously supportive.
"He's in the lucky position of being good at something, and passionate about
it," Nick says. "He wants to give it a good lash."

Jones' father, Ernie, meanwhile seems genuinely stunned by the interest. "It's a
strange one," he says, wonder in his voice. "We thought he would just go to
varsity and do something normal . . . we've started to think now that this could
be at least equal to the option of varsity, so we are kinda thinking about that.
We're blown away by the attention."

He's most surprised that people would commentate on his son's games and pay to
watch him play. He says he's expected to get good grades this year and wants his
son to at least complete his schooling.

So come November, his son plans to use a four-day break in exams to fly off to a
tournament, then return to finish his papers; one day, Smith has a morning exam
and an afternoon flight to a Singapore event. After that, his time at Western
Springs College will be over.

Until then, he's being diligent enough about his schoolwork. "We told him it
would be really good if you could nail some great marks this year to keep some
options open as a backstop," says Nick Smith. "He's mindful of that - but he
doesn't think he needs the backstop."

--------------------

CAPTION:

Showtime: The scene in Los Angeles, above, for the world title bout in League of
Legends. Below: Cameron Jones, left, and Mack Smith, want to be the first Kiwis
to join the ranks of fulltime professional gamers. Bottom: World champions,
Taipei Assassins

won $US1million in front of a global audience of millions.

Picture: Peter Meecham / Fairfax NZ, Riot

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                             205 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

New Richmond native to receive Presidential Medal of Freedom

BYLINE: Chuck Rupnow, The Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 727 words


May 02--New Richmond native John Doar, a former civil rights attorney credited
with diffusing a possible civil rights-era riot in Jackson, Miss., and who later
was involved with the impeachment of President Richard Nixon, soon will receive
the nation's highest civilian honor.

Doar, 90, will be one of 13 people to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom
from President Barack Obama. The ceremony date has not been announced.

"I'm just dumbfounded," Doar said in a Leader-Telegram interview Monday. "It's
very flattering. This is totally unexpected, and I feel honored."

In a news release, the White House said the Presidential Medal of Freedom is
"presented to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to
the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to
cultural or other significant public or private endeavors."

In the release, Obama said: "These extraordinary honorees come from different
backgrounds and different walks of life, but each of them has made a lasting
contribution to the life of our nation. They've challenged us, they've inspired
us, and they've made the world a better place. I look forward to recognizing
them with this award."

Doar is referred to as a "legendary public servant" and leader of federal
efforts to protect and enforce civil rights during the 1960s. He was assistant
attorney general in charge of the Civil Rights Division of the Department of
Justice.

In that capacity, he was instrumental during many major civil rights crises,
including single-handedly preventing a riot in Jackson following the funeral of
slain civil rights leader Medgar Evers in 1963.

"The credit belongs to all the attorneys in the Civil Rights Division who worked
hard to get an honest system of self-government so everyone felt entitled to
vote and could vote," Doar said. "The Voting Act of 1965 (which outlawed
discriminatory voting practices) really changed the world. I was proud to be
part of it."

Doar played basketball at Princeton University, earned his law degree in
California and was practicing law with his father and cousin, the future
governor Warren Knowles, in New Richmond when he got a call from two Princeton
graduates inviting him to work in the Civil Rights Division.

Among his career highlights:

- Escorting James Meredith to register as the first black student at the
University of Mississippi in 1962. He was at Meredith's side when more than 100
marshals were injured or wounded by vigilantes during protests.

- Prosecuting the "Mississippi Burning" case against whites who murdered three
civil rights workers in 1964.

- Diffusing a potential riot in Jackson after the assassination of and funeral
for Evers in 1963 by standing between protesters and police.

Doar had met numerous times with Evers, "who gave us names and told us what kind
of people we would be talking to. We went back to Washington and prepared
discrimination complaints, the first ones filed in Mississippi. That was the
beginning, and it had to do with Evers' efforts. I considered him a friend."

"I had to run the operation so it was clear to the people in Mississippi, white
or black, that we represented the United States; not the students, not the
blacks, but we were going right down the middle," Doar recalled. "That was the
only way we could do it and be effective."

Doar admits he likely was a target "of some kind" by those opposed to the equal
rights movement.

"You had to be careful and earn respect by being fair. That's what I tried to
do," he said.

Doar talks casually about working with John and Robert Kennedy and others of
political fame. He later was special counsel to the House Judiciary Committee as
it investigated the Watergate scandal and considered articles of impeachment
against Nixon.

Doar, who lives in New York City, continues to practice law at Doar Rieck Kaley
& Mack in New York, although admittedly sparingly.

"This award just proves that if you stay alive long enough, all good things
come," he said with a laugh.

"I still call New Richmond home," he added. "I love St. Croix County and
northwestern Wisconsin. I am very proud I came from Wisconsin."

Rupnow can be reached at 715-830-5831, 800-236-7077 or chuck.rupnow@ecpc.com

___ (c)2012 the Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wis.) Visit the Leader-Telegram
(Eau Claire, Wis.) at www.leadertelegram.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120502-EW-New-Richmond-native-to-receive-Presidential-Medal-of-Freedom-0502-20
120502

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                       Copyright 2012 The Leader-Telegram


                             206 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Buffalo News (New York)

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Europe needs a new identity

BYLINE: By Fareed Zakaria - Newsweek

SECTION: VIEWPOINTS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 677 words


We've now been through two cycles of commentary on the French riots. The first
saw the troubles as part of the broader clash of civilizations between Islam and
the West. "Fallujah on the Seine?" asked the neo-conservative Weekly Standard.
Columnist Mark Steyn went further, drawing dark parallels to the Muslim conquest
of Europe in the eighth century.

But the riots had little to do with Islam. There were no green flags, no
crescent signs, no slogans about Palestine, no rhetoric about Islam. The young
men interviewed were irreligious and talked about respect, jobs and
discrimination, not jihad, suicide and virgins in paradise. The pictures looked
more like those of America's race riots in the 1960s than of Fallujah or
Ramallah.

The next wave of analysis focused on economics. France has a staggeringly high
unemployment rate in its ethnic ghettos, ranging from 15 to 30 percent. It has
produced only a few hundred thousand private-sector jobs over the past 25 years,
while the United States has generated almost 50 million. But if the chief cause
of trouble is unemployment, there are millions of unemployed Frenchmen who are
white and of European descent, and they are not rioting.

France's current crisis is fundamentally a problem of national identity. And
this is not a peculiarly French problem. Western Europe today has almost as many
foreign-born citizens as does the United States. But its countries don't think
of themselves as immigrant nations. The centers of society remain tightly knit,
insular and largely homogenous.

Europeans claim to have given up their old national identities, but have they
really? France speaks of a republic of values, but scratch beneath the surface
and it is a republic of cloistered communities. Other European countries speak
of postreligious, postnational identities, but at heart they remain countries
where identity is defined by family, community and territory.

This is, after all, what so many of us find admirable about Europe. Its
communities are rooted in specific places. People don't move; they give a place
a sense of historical continuity. The ties to the land remain deep. But these
very traits become deeply oppressive to outsiders struggling to find a place at
the table.

Solving this problem is a matter of survival for Europe. These outsiders are
citizens; they have to be integrated. In fact, for Europe to prosper, it needs
more immigrants. The biggest cause of Europe's lower growth rate is a lack of
immigration. And things are only going to get worse. Put simply, Europe has too
many retirees and too few workers. The only real solution to this is some
increased immigration. But if immigration ineluctably causes social chaos,
Europe is doomed.

What is the solution? France and other European countries need to move closer to
a national identity based on ideas and values. And they need to take active
measures -- like affirmative action -- to integrate their minorities. Without
affirmative action, America would not have its sizable black middle class, which
is an effective balm to the problem of race relations.

One country has moved in that direction, with notable results. Britain has over
the past 20 years redefined its identity. In a remarkable discussion in Prospect
magazine last April, Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown explained his
definition of British identity: "A belief in tolerance and liberty, a sense of
civic duty, a sense of fair play, a sense of being open to the world."

When pushed as to whether these were really in any meaningful sense "British,"
Brown persisted, saying, "(These are) the ideas that underpin our history. We
were talking about liberty and opportunity long before America was established.
And America is based on British ideas . . . And if you look at British history,
then the fact that four nations eventually came together means that Britishness
could never be based on ethnic identity."

Britain is searching for a solution that honors the past, embraces the present
and prepares it for the future. One cannot say as much for the rest of Europe.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2005 The Buffalo News


                             207 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

From Abolition to Dickinson, Rev. Higginson made his mark

BYLINE: Albert B. Southwick

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 908 words


The Telegram recently ran a brief article on the life and career of Thomas
Wentworth Higginson (1823-1911), the radical Worcester Unitarian minister of 150
years ago. The article was all right, as far as it went, but it left out some
important features of Rev. Higginson's astonishing life story. Worcester has had
its share of striking personalities and careers, but nothing to equal the
Higginson saga.

Just a brief summary: He was a teacher, a preacher, a radical reformer, a
gunrunner, a dedicated abolitionist, an apostle of physical fitness, a writer,
an editor, a military leader, a prominent intellectual and a strong supporter of
John Brown, the terrorist who massacred pro-slavery settlers in Kansas in 1856
and later led the ill-fated 1859 raid at Harper's Ferry that was aimed at
setting off a slave rebellion.

When he was minister of the Worcester Free Church in 1855, he sponsored
Worcester's first Christmas party for children, black and white, with a
Christmas tree and gifts. It may have been the city's first Christmas tree
publicly displayed.

As a member of the Worcester School Committee in 1854, he supported Catholic
parents who did not want the King James Version of the Bible read in class. He
was ousted from the School Committee when the anti-Catholic Know-Nothing Party
swept state and local elections in 1855.

He presided over the unconventional wedding of feminist Lucy Stone and Henry
Blackwell. Lucy kept her maiden name and the service had no reference to her
"obeying" her husband.

He carried guns and weapons to the Free Soilers who were emigrating to the
Kansas Territory in the 1850s.

The Compromise of 1850 opened Kansas up for settlement under the new "popular
sovereignty" idea, which meant that the new state would decide later whether it
would be slave or free.

New England sent thousands of families to Kansas in an effort to ensure that the
state vote would be for freedom and against slavery. The issue was finally
settled by the Civil War.

Rev. Higginson was the discoverer, editor and publisher of Emily Dickinson, the
reclusive poet of Amherst. He paid her a visit and wrote the only contemporary
account of her home and surroundings and personal appearance.

He was a believer in physical fitness and the outdoor life. He once led an
expedition of men and women to the top of Mount Katahdin in Maine, the women
attired in the new "bloomer" garb. One of his skating parties on Lake
Quinsigamond attracted more than a thousand people.

In 1854, he led a contingent of Worcester activists to Boston to save Anthony
Burns, a fugitive slave, from being returned to his master in Virginia. In a
confrontation at the courthouse in Boston, a guard was killed. Rev. Higginson
escaped being arrested and tried only because the authorities did not want to
set off another mob riot. When U.S. Marshal Asa Butman, the man who had captured
Burns, showed up in Worcester a few weeks later, supposedly to capture another
former slave, the Rev. Higginson and his friends organized a protest that turned
into a riot. It ended with Mr. Butman being forcibly escorted out of town after
being badly beaten by enraged black citizens.

He was a strong supporter of John Brown, even after the massacre at Ossawotamie,
Kan. When Mr. Brown began to make plans for instigating a slave rebellion in
Virginia, Rev. Higginson joined a group called "The Secret Six" to support the
wild-eyed scheme.

After the bloody fiasco at Harper's Ferry, the hanging of John Brown and the
discovery of incriminating documents, some members of the "Secret Six" went to
Canada to escape arrest. Not Rev. Higginson. He stayed in Massachusetts and even
organized a plan to free some of Mr. Brown's men, then being held in a Virginia
prison. The plan eventually was deemed suicidal and was abandoned, but Rev.
Higginson remained convinced that slavery would have to be put down by force.

Shortly after the inauguration of Abraham Lincoln and the secession of the
South, Rev. Higginson was organizing and drilling a company of Worcester
volunteers, part of the 51st Massachusetts Regiment. On Nov. 14, 1862, the Army
invited him to become the commanding colonel of the first black regiment in the
Union army - the First South Carolina Volunteers. Rev. Higginson's troops were
former slaves, mostly illiterate. Many army officers believed that they would be
poor material for army duty, but under his leadership, they became an effective,
disciplined force. Most of their action was along the Georgia and Florida
coasts. Rev. Higginson was invalided out of the army in 1864 because of a
festering wound, but he remained convinced for the rest of his life that black
people, even those raised under the crippling environment of slavery, were
entitled to exercise the obligations of full citizenship.

Despite all that, Rev. Higginson's fame today is probably most linked with the
career of Emily Dickinson, the reclusive poet from Amherst, whose pungent,
quirky poems have established her reputation as one of America's most remarkable
writers. Had he not discovered her, encouraged her and finally published her
poetry after her death, Emily Dickinson might not have been known or remembered
at all.

So it is an unusual and illustrious career that we are describing when we talk
about the Rev. Thomas Wentworth Higginson. I think it fair to say that Worcester
has never seen anything quite comparable.

Albert B. Southwick's column appears regularly in the Telegram & Gazette.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
The Rev. Thomas W. Higginson
FILE PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             208 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                    The Record (Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario)

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

More deaths reported in Myanmar violence; China adds voice to international
reaction to crackdown

BYLINE: Record news services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 723  words

DATELINE: YANGON, MYANMAR


Soldiers with automatic rifles fired yesterday into crowds of anti-government
demonstrators in the Myanmar capital, Yangon, killing at least nine people in
the bloodiest day in more than a month of protests demanding an end to military
rule.

Bloody sandals lay scattered on some streets as protesters fled shouting "Give
us freedom, give us freedom!''

On the second day of a brutal crackdown, truckloads of troops in riot gear also
raided Buddhist monasteries on the outskirts of Yangon, beating and arresting
dozens of monks, witnesses and western diplomats said.

Japan protested the killing of a Japanese photographer.

Daily demonstrations by tens of thousands have grown into the stiffest challenge
to the ruling junta in two decades, a crisis that began Aug. 19 with rallies
against a fuel price hike then escalated dramatically when monks began joining
the protests.

With the government ignoring international appeals for restraint, troops fired
into packs of demonstrators in at least four locations in Yangon, witnesses and
a western diplomat said.

Protesters -- some shouting "Give us freedom!'' -- dodged roadblocks and raced
down alleys in a defiant game of cat and mouse with soldiers and riot police
that went on for most of the day. Some 70,000 protesters were on the streets at
the height of the chaos, though the total was difficult to estimate as different
groups broke up and later re-formed.

Sandals were strewn by a pool of blood at one spot where people fled approaching
police. In a brave challenge, a bare-chested man emerged from one crowd to
advance toward riot officers, then was felled by a rubber bullet and suffered a
beating by officers who took him away.

The junta's heavy-handed tactics did not bode well for the monks and
pro-democracy activists who are trying to bring down a military regime that has
ruled since ousting a civilian government in 1962.

State radio said security forces fatally shot nine people, including a Japanese
citizen, and wounded 11 people.

Some of the day's most striking photographs showed a gunshot victim identified
as the dead Japanese journalist lying in the street, camera still in hand, after
two or three bursts of gunfire sent protesters running.

One picture, posted on the website of the Japanese television network Fuji,
showed a soldier pointing his rifle down at the man lying face up on the ground
clutching a camera.

Japan's new foreign minister, Masahiko Komura, told reporters in Washington that
his country held Myanmar's government accountable for the killing of journalist
Kenji Nagai, 50, who was covering the protests for the Japanese video news
agency APF News.

The bloodshed followed lesser violence Wednesday, in which the government said
police bullets killed one person, while media and dissident reports said up to
eight died on the first day of the crackdown in Myanmar, formerly known as
Burma.

Dramatic images of bloodied protesters and fleeing crowds have captured world
attention and prompted the United Nations and many governments to call for the
junta to end the confrontation peacefully.

The United States imposed economic sanctions yesterday on more than a dozen
senior Myanmar officials, including the junta's two top generals, and it again
urged China as Myanmar's main economic and political ally to use its influence
to prevent further bloodshed.

"We feel admiration and compassion for the monks and peaceful protesters calling
for democracy,'' President George W. Bush said. "Every civilized nation has a
responsibility to stand up for people suffering under a brutal military regime
like the one that has ruled Burma for too long.''

China blocked an effort on Wednesday by the United States and European countries
to have the UN Security Council condemn the violent crackdown.

But yesterday China added its important voice to criticism from abroad when it
publicly called for restraint.

Every other time the regime has been challenged, it has responded with harsh
force, including in 1988 when troops killed as many as 3,000 pro-democracy
protesters. Negotiations are unlikely and compromise is not in the military's
vocabulary, analysts said.

"Judging from the nature and habit of the Myanmar military, they will not allow
the monks or activists to topple them,'' said Chaiyachoke Julsiriwong, a Myanmar
scholar at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, Thailand.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ASSOCIATED PRESS , Monks pray at Julius Caesar Hall in Rome
yesterday during a gathering against a military crackdown on anti-government
demonstrations in Myanmar. In the background is a large photo of Aung San Suu
Kyi, the detained Nobel Peace Prize laureate and Myanmar's opposition leader.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Metroland Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             209 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

THE NEIL COLLINS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1132 words


TIME FOR FAIR SHARES OF THE ISHARE GLORY

MARTIN Taylor was not a success as Barclays' chief executive. He ran into the
quicksand of an established bureaucracy, and quit after four years in 1998.
While there, he persuaded his colleagues to buy an obscure California-based fund
management business that offered big investors a way to buy an index, paying
with cash or individual shares in the index.

Its index-tracking iShares have been called the most important innovation in
fund management of the last 20 years. Low-cost and relatively low risk, they
propelled Barclays Global Investors into one of the world's biggest fund
managers. Now, after some shabby dissembling from the bank, Barclays has
confirmed that the business is up for sale.

It's nonsense to call iShares the jewel in the crown, since it has precious
little to do with banking. Rather, the sale reflects its increasingly desperate
efforts to keep the British Government off its share register while not
triggering a reset of the terms of its last fundraising from its friends in Abu
Dhabi. The £4 billion-plus price that Goldman Sachs, among others, is prepared
to contemplate is one-third of Barclays' current market value, even after the
recent jump in the share price.

A sale might realise enough for the bank to tell the truth about its other
assets. John Varley is unlikely to say so, but he should be grateful to his
predecessor for providing him with such a valuable, saleable investment.

If you've ever wished you could give Gordon Brown a piece of your mind, when he
can't interrupt, or fail to answer the question, then clock this nailbiting 31/2
minutes where he's forced to sit and hear it told like it is in the European
Parliament:

---

YOU NEED SAVINGS PROTECTION, OKAY?

OH no. Just when you thought it was safe to switch on your telly again, Sir Alan
Sugar's back with his mental-cruelty programme. You may have felt forced to
watch it last night. Worse still, his 'orrible mug will have spoiled your
journey home on Tuesday, jumping out of the Standard in a threatening National
Savings ad.

Do you want a little protection? It would be terrible if something nasty
happened to your money, wouldn't it? Suralan is just the chap to persuade you to
see things his way, and he may have a point. Inflation measured by the Retail
Prices Index has stopped, but the world's governments are desperately trying to
get it going again.

Index-linked National Savings certificates are, frankly, dull. However, they do
return 1% plus the increase in the RPI, are safe, and are easily turned into
cash if you need to. The prices of their big brothers, index-linked gilts, imply
that inflation won't average more than 11/2% over the next six years, but the
biggest player in this market clearly doesn't believe it.

The Debt Management Office, the Government's cat's-paw, needs to raise £148
billion next year, but only £21 billion will be in index-linked stock, with its
in-built protection against inflation. Investors buying the remaining £127
billion will be repaid in devalued currency, and yesterday's failed auction of
long-dated stock is the first indication that the penny is at last beginning to
drop.

Conventional gilts have had a great run, but are grossly overpriced, so don't
muck about. Get yourself some protection, as Sugar might say.

Making his point: Sir Alan Sugar wants to get us all fired up about National
Savings

--

THE ROT, THE RIOTERS AND A RADICAL SOLUTION FOR BANKS

NEXT Wednesday should be a riot in the City. In fact, if it's not, it will prove
that we Brits have turned into docile dolts who will swallow anything the
Government cares to feed us. While the G20 circus will officially paralyse
Docklands, the protesters will be doing their best to do the same in the Square
Mile, and it's hard to disagree with many of their sentiments. The banking
crisis has destroyed the public finances, and those responsible for getting us
here have escaped. The price will be paid by the mostly young protesters who
face decades of taxes to service the public debt, and we can look forward to a
G20 summit somewhere between farce and fiasco, culminating in the inevitable
drivel of a meaningless communiqué.

Our Dear Leader, intoxicated by his opportunity to save the world, can be relied
upon to blame everyone else, as usual. Yet to some extent he is right. No
government has a convincing proposal to get us out of the morass.

Tim Geithner, the US Treasury Secretary, managed to trigger a relief rally on
Wall Street with his bailout plan, but the chart here shows why it is yet
another gift to speculative investors.

The buyers of the assets under the plan will borrow six-sevenths of the price
from the Treasury at about 2%, which would also buy half the equity. As a
result, the maximum loss is the tiny, one-fourteenth slice of equity, while the
profit is potentially unlimited.

The US administration, like the UK Treasury, is clutching the idea that this
crisis is one of liquidity, when it is really one of solvency, because the
banks' assets are worth too little to cover their liabilities. The market senses
this, which is why only governments will put up cash to meet their liquidity
needs.

The potentially fatal weakness of the Geithner plan is that the incentive
offered will not bridge the gap between what the buyers will pay, and the loss
the banks can afford to crystallise. Disclosure is all very well, except when it
discloses that your bank is bust.

So far, the pain has been borne by the shareholders and the taxpayers, but if we
are to get through the crisis, it must be spread much further.

Willem Buiter, a former member of the Bank of England's monetary policy
committee, asks: "Why are the unsecured creditors of banks deemed too precious
to take a hit or a haircut since Lehman Brothers went down?"

The answer is that nobody anticipated the extent of the shock waves that
followed Lehman's collapse. Establishing just who is entitled to what from the
wreckage, when what is compulsory in one jurisdiction is forbidden in another,
will keep the administrators in fees for years to come. Understandably, the
authorities are reluctant to risk a repeat, or further damage to what's left of
the market's confidence, should they let another bank be seen to fail.

Yet once again, the market is ahead of them. Despite the timely payment of the
due interest on Bradford & Bingley's unsecured bonds (for example), they are
priced for failure, with a running yield of more than 40%.

Buiter's argument comes back to the solution that governments have resisted; the
good bank-bad bank split, with the depositors protected in a new, solvent
institution, and the other creditors left to salvage what they can. Such a
radical move may stop the rot, but it doesn't deserve to stop the riot.

US Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2009    Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             210 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Serbia needs to move on

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 196  words


For Americans, last week's fiery attack on the United States embassy in Belgrade
evoked unpleasant memories of the more calamitous Iran hostage crisis three
decades earlier in Tehran, when 52 US diplomats were held for 444 days.

The immediate trigger of the riots was that the US and others recognised a
declaration of independence by Kosovo, the latest part of the former Yugoslavia
to break away. For many Serbs, that recognition was like waving a red rag at a
bull. Even though few Serbs live there, it is the place they consider the cradle
of their civilisation, yet the hard reality is that Kosovo is not going to be
part of Serbia again.

Serbs are suffering badly from their isolation from Europe.

Once the most prosperous centre of the former Yugoslavia, Serbia has become an
economic backwater with about 20 per cent unemployment. At the weekend, the
world condemned the violence in Belgrade. That should help send a two-pronged
message to Serb leaders: they have an obligation to protect embassies and the
best choice for their nation's future is to banish former leader Slobodan
Milosevic's ghost.

This is an edited extract of an editorial published in USA Today on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2008 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             211 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           November 22, 2005, Tuesday

Dollar rides wave of investment as world chases its American Dream

BYLINE: Gerard Baker gerard.baker@thetimes.co.uk

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 824 words


Anti-Americanism is rampant around the world. President Bush can't set foot in a
foreign country without starting a riot. US troops are shot at from Baghdad to
Kandahar. American companies are despised in Europe as "locusts" feeding off the
wasteland of the industrial landscape.

But when it comes to the global investing class, the world still can't get
enough of America. For the past decade, in good times and bad, the US's chronic
habit of spending more than it saves has been financed by foreign investors
rushing to pour their euros, pounds, yen and yuan into American assets.

The world, obviously, has been the winner; continued strong US demand growth has
kept the wolves from the global economy's door. But economists wring their hands
and warn it cannot go on for ever.

Last week, however, the United States published some eye-catching figures that
suggest there is no obvious end in sight.

In September, foreigners poured a net $118 billion (£ 69 billion) into US
securities, according to the US Treasury, comfortably more than enough to cover
the nation's $70 billion-a-month current account deficit.

The details suggested the news is even better. In recent years, more than a
quarter of the total net capital inflow into the US came from foreign central
banks, mainly the Chinese and Japanese. That has raised alarms that the US
economy is in thrall to the decisions of a few officials in Beijing and Tokyo
and that, when they decide to pull the plug, the dollar will collapse, bringing
equities down with it and sending interest rates soaring.

But the September figures put the net inflow from central banks at just $4
billion, a tiny fraction of the total. In the past three months they have
accounted for just 6 per cent of all foreigners' purchases.

Private sector investors have instead been filling their boots with US assets.
And the even better news is that these investors are not simply absorbing vast
quantities of US official debt. They have been purchasing private assets:
equities and, increasingly, corporate bonds. In the past three months, more than
a third of the total net inflow represented by the private sector came in
purchases of US company debt.

The funding picture gets better still. This month the US also announced that the
federal budget deficit, that perennial worry for the global economy, declined
sharply. In the fiscal year that ended in September, the deficit was $319
billion, just 2.6 per cent of GDP, and down by almost $100 billion on a year
earlier.

Corporate tax receipts surged in the past year -up by 45 per cent.

Combined, these two reports present a decidedly rosy picture of the US
international accounts. America's financial security is no longer in the hands
of a few central bankers propping up the federal government and the US dollar as
a matter of policy. Instead, it is controlled by millions of individual and
institutional investors who seem perfectly happy to go on investing in the
high-yielding assets of the highly productive US economy.

No wonder the dollar has been rising. Last week it shot up again. The euro
dropped below 1.18 to the dollar and the pound fell towards 1.70. The US
currency is now up 12 per cent against major currencies since the recent trough
reached this spring. That in turn has been helping to power gains in equity
markets.

Does all this mean a decisive turn for the US currency, bringing to an end its
3-year-long downphase?

No is the short answer. First, the fiscal position may look better than a year
ago, but it will almost certainly deteriorate again. The surge in corporate tax
revenues is unlikely to be repeated, and the Hurricane Katrina-related spending
already pledged will boost the fiscal deficit next year.

And that apparent collapse in central bank purchases of US assets may be
illusory.

The monthly numbers demonstrate high volatility and could easily reverse.

Secondly, the details are murky, but some of the apparently healthy private
capital inflows in September may have been US companies repatriating profits to
ensure compliance with cumbersome new legislation on overseas subsidiaries.

Thirdly, the purchases of corporate bonds in recent months by foreigners may
represent too much of a good thing. The average interest spread on high quality
paper over US Treasury debt is well below one percentage point now, an absurdly
risky level. Does anyone really think Google is not much more of a credit risk
than the US government?

Last, the US current account deficit remains stubbornly high -headed over 7 per
cent of GDP this year. The strong inflows in the past few months represent not
much more than the accounting entry needed to make the current account balance.

None of this means the US economy is headed for a crash. But it's hard to see
the kind of adjustment still needed happening without a further sizeable drop in
the dollar. And with the ECB set to raise interest rates, the US currency is
enjoying a respite, rather than a recovery.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             212 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday

Review of the Turkish Islamist Press 01 Apr 06

LENGTH: 1053 words


The following lists selected reports carried in the Turkish Islamist press on 1
April.

Yeni Safak

Under the banner headline "Sabanci should mind his own business", Yeni Safak
carries a front-page report, which says that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
has criticized Omer Sabanci, chairman of the Turkish Industrialists and
Businessmen's Association, for saying that the government should reappoint
Sureyya Serdengecti, who recently retired as governor of the Turkish Central
Bank.

In a 400-word article entitled "Ergun has a point, but.."., on page 2, Yeni
Safak columnist Ahmet Kekec questions Sabah columnist Ergun Babahan's view that
the government should pay more attention to the outcome of the recent opinion
polls, which indicated that people regard President Ahmet Necdet Sezer as the
most trustworthy leader and have no complaint about his powers to ratify or
reject laws and appointments to key positions in the government. He comments:
"The opposite could be true as well. The government, whose actions are welcomed
by the public (but is always expected to empathize), is obstructed by the most
trustworthy establishment due to various reasons. Should not Sezer, who is
described as a 'popular president,' exercise an equal level of care? Empathy
would be useful if is shown by both sides".

In a 600-word article entitled "Pious and secular: Turkey in the process of
transformation" on page 4, Yeni Safak columnist Ali Bayramoglu analyses the
results of a survey on the Islamic and secular camps in Turkey, which, he says,
indicate that there is a far-reaching process of self-criticism and even
transformation taking place in both groups after a decade of confrontations. He
notes: "This change involves a social integration and a resulting consensus
rather than a political compromise".

Vakit

Under the banner headline "Provocations continue", Vakit carries a front-page
report highlighting continuing Kurdish riots in various southeastern cities in
Turkey.

In a 500-word article entitled "Peace between Palestine and Israel is only a
fantasy" on page 2, Vakit columnist Serdar Demirel argues that prospect of a
peaceful settlement of the Middle East dispute after the recent general election
in Israel still look dim due to Kadima's intention to declare its permanent
borders, which, Demirel says, will include a part of occupied Palestinian
territories. Pointing out that Hamas's ideology would not permit it to accept a
proposal, which would involve its recognition of Israel and a de facto
situation, Demirel concludes by saying: "As long as it is guided by Sharon's
spirit, Kadima Party will use its peace proposals as a leverage for putting
pressure on the Palestinians on the international political stage and to put its
plans into practice unilaterally. Attempts to dictate its terms would be
tantamount to denying the other side's rights and thus lead to an impasse".

Vakit carries a 1,000-word interview entitled "Being a journalist in Iraq" with
Yasim Mahdi Shammari, who is identified as a journalist working for Iraqi daily
Al-Basair, on page 6. Shammari says that he was detained in June 2005 and
tortured for 13 days in order to force him to stop writing articles criticizing
the US Army's actions in Iraq and eventually fled Iraq due to death threats. He
says that the Iraqi media are manipulated in order to misinform the world about
the ongoing insurgency in Iran and casualties suffered by the coalition forces.

In a 500-word article entitled "Do our worst fears come true?" on page 11, Vakit
columnist Abdurrahman Dilipak argues that focuses on the continuing riots in
various southeastern cities is part of an Israeli plan designed to depopulate
and control the region by inciting ethnic strife.

Zaman

Under the banner headline "Two encouraging trends in economy", Zaman carries a
front-page report highlighting data about the Turkish economy's performance in
2005, which was released by the Turkish Institute of Statistics, DIE yesterday.
According to DIE figures, the Turkish economy grew 7.6 per cent in 2005, which
surpassed expectations, while per capita income exceeded 5,000 dollars.

In a 600-word article entitled "Sharon-Olmert plan could not be successful" on
page 17, Zaman columnist Sahin Alpay asserts that the Palestinians will not
accept Olmert's plan to draw Israeli borders unilaterally because it disregards
their rights. Alpay says that the international community should also not accept
the plan and concludes that an eventual settlement could only be reached through
negotiations rather than using force.

In a 600-word article entitled "'Let us Wait and see'" on page 17, Zaman
columnist Turan Alkan analyses the situation in the southeastern part of Turkey
and cautions that pro-PKK attitudes could be shared by more and more people in
the region if the majority of the Kurdish community, who do not support the PKK,
remain indifferent to that dangerous trend.

Milli Gazete

Under the banner headline "We want peace" Milli Gazete carries a front-page
report, which says that the Turkish public is anxious due to the continuing
unrest in the Southeast, which, it says, erupted as the United States stepped up
pressure on Iran.

In a 400-word article entitled "Diyarbakir in a Circle of Fire" on page 4, Milli
Gazete columnist Ali Haydar Haksal focuses on the Kurdish riots and reminds that
he had said in a recent article that US troops had been transported from
Incirlik Air Base to Mus airport. He notes: "Some of the militants died during
riots staged in an area near the administrative border between Bingol and Mus. I
wonder whether only US troops were carried by those buses". Pointing out that
Pentagon and CIA officials paid a series of visits to Turkey recently, Haksal
says: "The plot being hatched by the United States should be foiled. The circle
of fire and chaos in the Southeast should not be allowed to spread to Iran".

In the first of an unspecified instalments of an article entitled "Being Called
a Neo-con is now Regarded as a bad Reputation" on page 9, Milli Gazete columnist
Murat Erginoz analyses the policies and objectives of the neo-conservatives in
the United States. He asserts that the neo-cons are in favour of using force in
order to establish US hegemony over the world.

Source: Turkish press selection list from BBC Monitoring in Turkish 1 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             213 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

BBC Monitoring quotes from China, Taiwan press 12 Dec 11

LENGTH: 3424 words


The following is a selection of quotes from editorials and commentaries carried
in 9-12 December 2011 website editions of mainland Chinese, Hong Kong and Taiwan
newspapers and news portals available to BBC Monitoring. Unless otherwise
stated, the quotes are in Chinese. The figure in brackets after the quote
indicates the date of publication on the website

Middle East

Beijing's Guangming Ribao (Chinese Communist Party newspaper): www.gmw.com.cn
"...The [US President] Obama administration clearly wants to put pressure on
civil strife in Iran to enable the US to make the enemy submit without a fight
and overthrow the Islamic revolutionary regime. Moreover, the US will still use
'smart power' and 'soft power' to weaken the morale of Iran... But the US has to
face pressure from Iran while mediating conflicts between allies. All this has
led to the US' strength being scattered and overwhelmed with problems. It is
difficult to imagine that the US would launch full military strikes against Iran
at this time..." (Zhou Rong, reporter, Islamabad) (12)

Headline: "Do not sit back and watch the US point gun at Iran"

Beijing's Huanqiu Shibao (Global Times) website: www.huanqiu.com "...After the
painful lessons of the wars in Iraq and Libya, China can no longer tolerate the
behaviour of US and Western countries of wilfully starting wars, undermining
China's interests and endangering world peace. It should join hands with Russia
which also opposes military action against Iran to say no..." (Long Tao,
strategy analyst, China Energy Fund Committee (non-government think-tank)) (10)

Shanghai's Wenhui Bao: wenhui.news365.com.cn "...[Referring to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad's interview with US television network ABC on 5 December]
Bashar's move was a very big mistake... Western countries will not change their
standpoint because of Bashar's defence of himself. This can be seen clearly from
the reaction of US officials... The Western media will never convey the full
voice of Syria. One can say that Bashar fell into a Western trap... What is
worse is that Bashar cut off the armed forces who have been his strongest
support at a critical time. This will create internal instability and serious
consequences..." (Zhong Shumin) (12)

Russian Duma elections

Beijing's Renmin Ribao (Chinese Communist Party newspaper People's Daily)
domestic edition: www.people.com.cn "...The sudden storm of rallies has made the
Russian government face considerable pressure. This is certainly a challenge for
the Russian government which has been accustomed to governing smoothly for 10
years, but it is not necessarily a bad thing. It can to some extent spur the
Russian government to further accelerate the building of democracy, strengthen
political cooperation, promote social harmony and punish corruption more
actively and severely..." (Jiang Yi, researcher, Institute of East European,
Russian and Central Asian Studies, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences) (12)

Headline: "Has a 'Russian Winter' really come?"

Beijing's Renmin Ribao overseas edition: "...Admittedly, the defeat in the Duma
election [on 4 December] has undermined [Russian Prime Minister] Putin's
prestige to some extent. Anti-Putin demonstrations constitute another blow, and
pressure from the US, UK and other countries have added external and internal
troubles to Putin's plight... But the Russian people want Russia to have a
strong president who can further enhance Russia's international power and
status..." (Zhang Hong, reporter) (10)

Headline: "'Russian Spring' only a Western con strategy"

Beijing's Huanqiu Shibao website: "...A 'Russian Spring' and 'colour revolution'
basically do not exist and this is just a Western con strategy... Russia will
still maintain overall stability... There may be more ideological confrontation
with the West in future. Perhaps the West will deal with China in the same way
in the future, so we must remain vigilant against this." (Interview with Wang
Haiyun, former Chinese military attache to Russia) (9)

Headline: "Inciting riots, US media obsessed with false news"

Beijing's Guangming Ribao: "...The West needs a Russia without Putin, this is in
no doubt. One only has to see Russia's dispute with the US on missile defence
issues to understand why Washington abhors Putin so much. Fraud during the
Russian State Duma elections and the reality of the setback suffered by the
ruling party may have affected Putin's support, but the West's aim of bringing
down Putin is no easy matter... The Russians cannot tolerate a weak president
and cannot tolerate Russia becoming an accomplice or follower of certain
countries or political forces in the international arena." (Wang Jiabo,
reporter) (12)

Headline: "Russian political trends have not changed"

Shanghai's Jiefang Ribao (Liberation Daily): www.jfdaily.com.cn "...The results
of the parliamentary elections reflect to some extent the Russian people's
dissatisfaction with 'swap-style' political arrangements. The gradual waning of
the halo of political stars has also led to soul-searching on the current
deep-seated conflicts in Russia's economy and society. However, the short-term
outlook for the '[Russian President] Medvedev-Putin duo' has not been directly
affected. It is almost a foregone conclusion that Putin will win the
presidential election next year..." (Zhao Long, director's assistant, Institute
of Global Governance, Shanghai Institute of International Studies) (11)

Headline: "Russian demonstrations show public tired of Putin"

Guangzhou's Nanfang Dushi Bao (Southern Metropolitan News):
www.nanfangdaily.com.cn "...Putin has in fact been in office too long and people
are increasingly dissatisfied with him... The Putin-Medvedev 'two-man swap'
broke the bottom line of endurance of some Russians... The impact of these
demonstrations has been huge... However, the shouts of 'nyet' [Russian: no] may
not drive off Putin... Despite the large number of protesters, its membership is
complex. Far left and far right, state totalitarianists and anarchists, and red
and orange flags rallying together. They can say 'nyet' to Putin together, but
will have difficulty saying 'da' (Russian 'yes') to any political view,
political party or political leader..." (Editorial) (12)

Hong Kong's Ming Pao: www.mingpaonews.com "...The US' move to open east and west
battlefronts has a taste of the past Cold War... Why has the US reopened two
fronts? The core is still global political and economic dominance. After the
2008 financial tsunami, the US' national strength suffered a major setback,
while China and Russia have avoided disaster and sought a leading position as
major powers amid the decline of the US' national strength... The US is largely
prepared for no clear improvement in US-Russia relations when Putin serves as
president again..." (Editorial) (11)

Asia-Pacific regional security

Headline: "'AirSea Battle' runs counter to global trends"

Beijing's Renmin Ribao overseas edition: "...The US pointed out when proposing
the 'AirSea Battle' concept in 2010 that the move was in response to a regional
power's growing 'anti-access-area denial' capability. China was not openly
named, but a discerning eye can see and understand that the spearhead is aimed
at China's military modernization... The 'AirSea Battle' combat concept proposed
and stepped up by the US runs counter to the contemporary trend of peace,
development and cooperation..." (Rear-Adm Yang Yi, former director, Institute of
Strategic Studies, People's Liberation Army National Defence University) (10)

Beijing's Huanqiu Shibao website: "...We should applaud the joint law
enforcement patrols of the Mekong River... Even though China's actions are open
and aboveboard, it is still subject to attacks by the Western media. Joint law
enforcement patrols on the Mekong are said to be China's so-called armed forces
using joint law enforcement patrols to 'expand their influence' to open a new
'strategic frontier' in Southeast Asia..." (Zhu Zhenming, researcher, Institute
of Southeast Asian Studies, Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences) (12)

2. "...The US is aggressive on the surface, but it is actually making a
'pre-emptive attack'. The US' specific demands are nothing more than maintaining
hegemony. China is regarded by the US as the next challenger, so the US has
painstakingly devised a 'South China Sea card' characterized by 'limited
disputes': It will start to create disturbances from any country that has highly
sensitive territorial disputes, but it will not truly fall out with China. It
will not touch Taiwan, the Korean Peninsula and other Chinese core interests and
quasi-core interests, nor will it use the Japan-US security treaty and other
military alliances as a platform to seize China's relatively weak 'area of
strategic ambiguity' in the South China Sea..." (Geng Xin, deputy director,
Japan China Communication Research Institute, Japan) (12)

Beijing's Global Times (English-language edition of state-run newspaper Huanqiu
Shibao) website in English: www.globaltimes.cn "...We should distinguish between
peaceful and violent multilateralism... In Northeast Asia, one manifestation of
violent multilateralism is the joint military exercise between the US and Japan
or South Korea, while the six-party talks represent peaceful multilateralism...
A maritime crisis management system should be built as soon as possible to
prevent any accident concerning the disputed islands or waters from affecting
the overall pattern of the two countries' [China, Japan] bilateral relations..."
(Liu Jiangyong, professor of Japanese studies and deputy director, Institute of
International Studies, Tsinghua University, Beijing) (11)

Headline: "US uses carrot-and-stick policy for Myanmar"

Beijing's China Daily (state-run newspaper) in English: www.chinadaily.com.cn
"...Some commentators now fear that [US Secretary of State Hillary] Clinton's
visit [to Burma, 30 November-2 December] could affect Myanmar's ties with China.
Such worries are unwarranted, for the foundation of China-Myanmar ties is not
that fragile... As a sovereign nation, Myanmar has the right to establish and
develop ties with any country it wants, including the US..." (Tao Wenzhao,
researcher, Institute of American Studies, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences)
(10)

European Union Summit

Headline: "Mixed EU summit"

Beijing's Renmin Ribao domestic edition: "The European Union [EU] summit on 9th
failed to reach an agreement among 27 member states on modifying the EU treaty
and establishing a fiscal union, but reached a consensus on injecting funds into
the International Monetary Fund [IMF] response to the debt crisis, launching the
European Stability Mechanism as well strengthening the eurozone's long-term
initiatives such as economic governance. This result suggests that the EU summit
was a mixed bag..." (Zhang Liang, Li Yongqun, Wu Yujun, reporters, Brussels)
(10)

Beijing's China Daily in English: "...The weekend agreement reached in Europe,
which offered temporary relief to global investors and those worried about a
potential collapse of the euro, remains a far cry from a fiscal union that will
prevent the European crisis from happening again. That means the turbulence in
the European financial markets and its effects on the real economy will continue
next year, which will affect the demand for Chinese exports..." (Commentary)
(12)

Beijing's Guangming Ribao: "...Overall, this summit, which was considered a
'last chance to save the euro', still achieved considerable progress driven by
France and Germany even though the UK did not join in... The summit had positive
significance for ultimately defeating the crisis and saving the euro..." (Yao
Li, reporter, Paris) (11)

Beijing's Guoji Zaixian (China Radio International) website: www.cri.com.cn
"...[UK Prime Minister] Cameron may have received a 'hero's welcome' after
returning home, but there are multiple lurking dangers behind his momentary
glory: How the UK can 'remain unscathed in the course of dealing with the
European financial crisis, while also getting out of the dilemma of being
marginalized by the EU has become a major problem facing the Cameron
government... Today, the UK has truly become an 'outsider' in the EU. It not
only lies outside of the eurozone, but also out of the EU's new fiscal treaty,
and its EU membership almost exists in name only..." (Liu Xiaofan, reporter)
(11)

Beijing's Xin Shijie (Century Weekly) business magazine: www.caing.com "...The
UK's estrangement with other EU countries merits attention from China. The UK
has been using its image as a 'gateway to investment in Europe' to attract
Chinese investors... Its light regulatory policy orientation, use of the English
language, common law and other factors are also important reasons why it is
favoured by foreign investors, but the European market behind it is the area
that many investors truly value. In the long term, is it really a wise choice to
treat the UK as the 'gateway to investment in Europe'?" (Zhang Hong, reporter)
(10)

Beijing's Jingji Cankao Bao (Economic Information Daily): www.jjckb.cn "...The
results of the meeting are in line with the expectations of the outside world:
The goal of amending the treaty within the entire EU to create a fiscal union
was too high and could not be achieved, but a separate new treaty within the
eurozone will proceed in an orderly manner to achieve the goal of financial
integration... The EU's foot has stepped into a river of unfathomable depth, and
the only thing it can do cross the river by feeling the stones. We hope it can
succeed." (Chong Dahai) (12)

Hong Kong's Wen Wei Po (Beijing-backed daily): www.wenweipo.com "...Handling
relations with the UK is a difficult problem that New Europe urgently needs to
consider. Looking at Europe's history, the UK has never been a bystander and
Europe's future will not be so good if the UK is marginalized... After the
crisis, the US' attitude may change. A united Europe will vie with the US for
the position of global leader. Moreover, the UK, which has acted as a mediator
between the two sides of the Atlantic, will be used by the US and the two will
echo each other. Discord within the Western world may arise as a result." (Zhang
Jingwei, commentator) (12)

Hong Kong's Hong Kong Economic Journal: www.hkej.com "...Germany and France did
not hesitate to succeed at forcefully launching new regulations for member
states to strengthen fiscal discipline at the cost of breaking with the UK... In
Europe's long-term war to quell the debt crisis, the first key battle has been
won and Europe has taken an important first step towards establishing a fiscal
union..." (Editorial) (10)

Durban climate change conference

Headline: "New chapter opened in international climate negotiations"

Beijing's Renmin Ribao overseas edition: "...International climate negotiations
have opened a new page... Of course, we should also see that the EU and other
developed countries agreeing to continue the 'Kyoto Protocol' commitment period
has greater symbolic significance than practical significance and it is only a
temporary transitional arrangement..." (Chen Ying, researcher, Institute for
Urban Development and Environment, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences) (12)

Beijing's Renmin Ribao domestic edition: "After two full weeks of intensive
negotiations and candid dialogue at the Durban conference and an extended
conference for one day, more than 190 'Convention' and 'Protocol' contract
parties jointly attained an outcome at the meeting on African soil that was more
in line with the expectations of all sides. These results have combined the hard
work and outstanding wisdom shown by the delegates in the negotiations and
reflect the will and determination of all parties to cooperate to address
climate change..." (Su Wei, deputy head of Chinese delegation and chief Chinese
negotiator on climate change) (12)

Headline: "Small ray of hope for future"

Beijing's China Daily in English: "...While the agreement [reached in Durban]
does offer a little hope, there is little reason for optimism... The days of
wrangling in Durban have again revealed the lack of political will from some
developed countries and their willingness to ignore their historical
responsibilities and the fact that they have shifted the bulk of their
manufacturing to developing countries. If the major developed countries continue
to take this stance, further talk and little or no action can be expected in the
coming years..." (Zhu Yuan, senior writer) (12)

Headline: "Durban reveals brazen selfishness of West"

Beijing's Huanqiu Shibao website: "...The performance of the developed countries
was actually chilling, and they revealed vividly to the world: This is still a
world where a doctrine of national selfishness runs rampant... The cold reality
of the Durban conference tells us that the West is basically not truly concerned
about China's human rights, and their selfishness is even worse that we can ever
imagine. We Chinese can only rely on ourselves for our welfare." (Editorial)
(12)

Beijing's Liaowang Xinwen Zhoukan (Outlook Weekly) magazine: lw.xinhuanet.com
"...Western countries had an attitude of being neither willing to 'contribute
effort' nor 'come up with money' in terms of responding to climate change, which
made the meeting process have twists and turns... China showed great sincerity
in order to enable the meeting to attain results, not only adhered to principles
to safeguard the interests of China and other developing countries, but also
showed some flexibility, which won positive comments..." (Yu Dabo, Chen Yong, Li
Jianmin, reporters) (10)

World Trade Organization

Beijing's China Daily in English: "Ten years ago, when China officially became
the 143rd member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), wolf crying was
pervasive... But instead of the vulnerable victim some pessimistically
anticipated, China has benefited tremendously from its integration with the rest
of the world... Beyond such indicators, the palpable symbols in everyday life -
from automobiles to iPhones - show WTO membership has been a life-changer for
the country and its citizens. But it has not all been a bed of roses..."
(Commentary) (12)

Beijing's Renmin Ribao domestic edition: "It has been a full 10 years since
China's accession to the WTO. What do these 10 years mean? One should say that
the international community has a basic consensus on this issue: China's
accession to the WTO expanded its opening up to the outside and benefited 1.3
billion Chinese people, but also benefited the people of all countries. For
various reasons, some people are unwilling to publicly admit this and some
people still use the renminbi exchange rate, unbalanced world trade and other
issues to complain... Why has the China military threat theory not been removed,
but is even resurging at the instigation of certain people with ulterior
motives?.." (Zhong Sheng, senior editor) (12)

Headline: "'China did the right thing, the world did the right thing'"

2. "...The significance of joining the WTO has been far-reaching. China did the
right thing and the world also did the right thing..." (Interview with Shi
Guangsheng, former Chinese minister of foreign trade) (12)

Beijing's Zhongguo Qingnian Bao (Chinese Communist Youth League newspaper China
Youth Daily): zqb.cyol.com "...Facts show that China's decade of 'accession to
the WTO' changed itself, but also changed the world. A win-win situation was
truly attained as people had hoped... In modern Chinese history, the May Fourth
Movement offered China the first opportunity for an Enlightenment. The concepts
of democracy and science permeated the minds of the Chinese. 'WTO entry'
provided citizens with brand-new concepts of the rule of law and intellectual
property rights, so one can also say that this was China's second Enlightenment
in its modernization process..." (Wang Zhenzhong, researcher, Institute of
Economics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences) (12)

Beijing's Huanqiu Shibao website: "It is no exaggeration at all to say that
China's accession to the WTO was an historical event of far-reaching
significance in the process of economic globalization at the start of this
century... In the new decade, our country should vigorously promote the building
of free trade agreements with ASEAN, Japan and the Republic of Korea, gradually
advance towards Asian regional trade liberalization, combined with the
construction of Asian regional currency arrangements..." (He Weiwen, executive
director, China WTO Research Association) (12)

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             214 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            June 14, 2006 Wednesday
                          First with the news Edition

FAST NEWS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 284  words


Second deadly crash

KABUL: A US military truck hit a motorcycle in the Afghan capital yesterday,
killing at least one person, about two weeks after a similar accident sparked
violent anti-US riots. The US military said one child may have been killed. In
last month's accident five civilians died. Seven people died in the riots that
followed.

Rain triggers collapse

PHNOM PENH: The main gate to Cambodia's new Khmer Rouge tribunal collapsed
during a downpour, killing a man who was seeking shelter from the storm. The
man, identified as a 23-year-old construction worker, died from injuries after
part of the heavy metal gate broke off during the rainstorm. Meanwhile, a tiny
mouse has cut electricity to more than 40 per cent of the Cambodian capital
Phnom Penh. The mouse managed to short circuit a 40-megawatt power plant.

Man dies at 111

TOKYO: The oldest man in Japan, 111-year-old Nijiro Tokuda, has died. Tokuda, of
Kagoshima in southern Japan, died last night at a hospital where he had been
treated since April. The cause of death has not been disclosed.

Bombs uncovered

MANILA: A cache of about 100 bombs from World War II has been found hidden in a
cave in the central Philippines. A team of bomb disposal experts was on its way
to the ammunition dump on the outskirts of the city of Talisay on the central
Philippine island of Negros. Residents discovered the rusty bombs after heavy
rains washed soil from the entrance of the cave.

Hunting tragedy

KUALA LUMPUR: A Malaysian man on a wild boar hunt accidentally killed his
friend, then turned the gun on himself and committed suicide. Wong Chan Man, 46,
was hunting with friend Tan Paw Ming, 55, on Sunday when he accidentally shot
Tan in the stomach.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             215 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 THE AUSTRALIAN

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                            All-round Metro Edition

Chirac condemns media for 'provocative' cartoons

BYLINE: Emma-Kate Symons, Paris

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 620  words


DESPITE outlawing the Islamic headscarf in French schools in the name of
secularism, President Jacques Chirac yesterday attacked the ''overt
provocation'' of the media after satirical French weekly Charlie Hebdo published
the 12 caricatures of Mohammed that sparked international riots.

As US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice accused Iran and Syria of deliberately
inciting violence and exploiting Muslim anger over the cartoons, Mr Chirac
instead struck out at the domestic press for offending Muslim religious
sensibilities and abandoning tolerance -- setting himself on a collision course
with the French Left and most of the mainstream media.

Despite a court fight by French Muslim associations to have Charlie Hebdo seized
on the grounds of racial and religious slander, the weekly was legally
published, and sold out quickly yesterday morning.

Curious French readers snapped up almost 400,000 copies of the record print run
devoted to the cartoons first published in September by Danish newspaper
Jyllands-Posten.

The weekly's cover page, headlined ''Mohammed stressed out by fundamentalists'',
featured a cartoon of the prophet with his hand over his eyes and complaining
''It's hard to be loved by mad people''. Cartoons about other religious groups
were also included in the edition.

Mr Chirac appealed for responsibility. ''Anything that can hurt the convictions
of another, particularly religious convictions, must be avoided,'' he said.
''Freedom of expression must be exercised in a spirit of responsibility. I
condemn all overt provocation that might dangerously fan passions.''

France has Europe's largest Muslim population, and yesterday it became -- after
Denmark -- the new continental epicentre of the crisis of fundamentalism and
religious pride versus secularism and free expression that has been engulfing
Europe and the Islamic world.

Still unresolved battles over the consequences of the 1789 French revolution
reignited in a bitter war of words between the country's six million Muslims --
backed by the unpopular Mr Chirac -- and the increasingly bold French media.

The revolution abolished the crime of blasphemy, and in 1905 France enshrined
secularism in a landmark law separating church and state.

Charlie Hebdo's publisher, Philippe Val, hit back at Mr Chirac, saying he was
''shocked'' the French head of state would accuse the magazine of inflaming
passions on the issue.

''It is not a provocation. The provocation began well before -- the fire was
sparked on September 11 in New York, and in the attacks on London and on
Madrid,'' Mr Val retorted.

Earlier the publisher commented: ''When there were the attacks on Madrid, on
London, did we see the Arab street demonstrating because some assassins had
committed horrible crimes in the name of Mohammed? We cannot leave it to
religious groups to dictate the laws of freedom of expression.''

Charlie Hebdo editor-in-chief Gerard Biard explained on page two of the edition
that the weekly was open to debate. ''But for debate to take place, it would be
essential that certain faithful stop attacking all those who do not adhere to
exactly the same beliefs as them,'' he said.

''And to stop responding to the pencil and the quill with the dagger and the
explosives belt. How many books and newspapers must we burn before the thirst of
the religious fanatics will be quenched?

''History shows freedom of expression must be much stronger than intimidation.''

Socialist MP Jean Glavany said the parallel drawn by Mr Chirac between
cartoonists and ''those who launch fatwas'' was ''very serious'' and
unacceptable.

French Muslim organisations have called for mass demonstrations on Saturday to
protest against what they see as blasphemous insults to Mohammed.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             216 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            November 21, 2008 Friday

Bennellick warmed up and ready for action

BYLINE: PENINSULA LEAGUE PREMIER DIVISION

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 671 words


Player-manager Jamie Bennellick stands by for a rare start when Dartmouth AFC
visit Falmouth Town tomorrow in the Premier Division of the Carlsberg South West
Peninsula League.

He did treat himself to a run-out in this week's rearranged first round
Westinsure St Lukes Bowl tie in which the South Hams club lost 5-2 in extra time
against Elmore Town from the Toolstation Western League.

But it lasted only 45 minutes before Bennellick substituted himself at half-time
having started in midfield surrounded by a mixture of reserve and third team
players with the exception of first teamers Chris Harrity, Tom Comyn and
two-goal Robbie Bowker.

"In the circumstances, we did brilliantly to take the game into extra time,"
said Bennellick.

"However, the idea of giving most of the first team a rest hasn't worked out as
I'd planned. We still have a few injuries, and I'm having to include myself in
the squad."

Simon Lewcock (groin), Andy Widdicombe (hamstring) and Jon Rimmer are the
definite non-starters, with Rimmer staying at home while his wife is close to
having a baby.

And former Totnes & Dartington SC and Newton Abbot central defender Richard
Farkins is a fellow non-starter, despite making his debut in central defence
against Elmore following his recent move from Exmouth Town.

"It's a shame to be down to the bare bones, because we've been in cracking form
of late," said Bennellick.

"We beat St Blazey 4-1 in our last league game, and there's a sense of
togetherness flowing right through the club at the moment."

That sense of togetherness within Longcross is also behind Dartmouth's
reluctance to dip into their Reserve team pool so as to supplement the first
team squad .

"They have a Herald Cup quarter-final against Totnes and Dartington Reserves, so
it's important we don't disrupt them too much. After all, we want all our sides
to be challenging for trophies this season, not just the first team," said
Bennellick.

One of tomorrow's likely changes would see Comyn restored up front after three
matches in the heart of the defence while covering for injuries.

"He's been magnificent, but we may have to move him back up front," hinted
Bennellick.

Last week's three points restored Dartmouth among the championship favourites
having moved up to third in the table, a point behind second-placed Buckland
with two games in hand.

Bodmin remain the team to catch however, with a five point lead over Dartmouth
and a match in hand.

NEWTON Abbot Spurs entertain Launceston at the Recreation Ground having had an
unexpected week's break after last Saturday's game at Holsworthy was postopned.

Striker Gary Byrne and midfielder Scott McArthur were reassigned to the Reserves
in their 5-2 win at Chagford in the Premier Division of the South Devon League,
but the remainder of the squad were able to put their feet up.

Not that it's helped midfielder Nick Cousins in any way, for he's begun a three
game suspension. Or centre-half Kevin Dadd, who is unavailable.

On the plus side, Shaun Woodward has been given an extra week to get over an
abdominal strain, and Dave Pooley is also available having missed Spurs' last
game a fortnight ago when they lost 3-1 at Falmouth.

Spurs, in fact, have rarely got the better of Cornish sides this season, having
also lost their first clash against Launceston in a midweek game on the
Industrial Estate at Pennygillam earlier in the campaign.

"We played better in the second half, but I was just glad to get out of there
alive after going 3-0 down early on," recalled manager Chris Breslan.

"They ran riot with us for a time, and were one of the best sides we've played.
I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, but our performance should tell me
if we've moved on or not."

BUCKLAND Athletic aren't back in action until Tuesday when they entertain
Torpoint Athletic at Homers Heath (7.30).

In the meantime, the remainder of tomorrow's Premier Division programme takes
Liskeard Athletic to Ivybridge Town, Holsworthy to Plymouth Parkway, Tavistock
to Wadebridge Town and Saltash United to Witheridge.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                             217 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           January 28, 2010 Thursday

After near riots, US Embassy in Haiti asks Haitians to stay away;
The US Embassy in the Haiti capital of Port-au-Prince has been overwhelmed by
Haitians seeking help or a way out of their troubled country. The US ambassador
says he understands the humanitarian need, but stresses the embassy is focusing
on US citizens and their relatives.

BYLINE: Howard LaFranchi Staff writer

LENGTH: 594 words


After some near-riot moments outside the United States Embassy here earlier this
week, officials decided it was time to act.

With thousands of desperate Haitians looking for a way out of a country
devastated by the Jan. 12 earthquake, the US embassy on the city's northern edge
- like the French and Canadian embassies, though to lesser degrees - became a
prime destination for would-be refugees.

The US ambassador to Haiti, Kenneth Merton, got on Haitian radio - the medium of
choice for most Haitians seeking information after the quake - to spread the
word: The US is providing unprecedented amounts of assistance to Haiti, he said,
but the embassy is only serving the legitimate needs of American citizens.

Information was placed in newspapers. Loudspeakers were used to spread the word
through the crowds of thousands lining up outside the embassy that Haitians'
needs would not be attended to at the embassy. The result is that while the
crowds continue to show up every day they are considerably smaller - and more
manageable - than a few days ago.

"Above everything else we wanted to make sure no one got hurt," says Gordon
Duguid, the US State Department's deputy spokesman, who traveled to
Port-au-Prince with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton the Saturday after the
quake and stayed on. "But as always in a situation like this, our first job is
to serve American citizens."

That means that a non-American relative of an American citizen's child may be
granted a visa to accompany the child to the US, but Haitians in dire straits
after the quake - even those with family in the US - won't.

Officials say the number of people soliciting embassy assistance went up by a
factor of 10 after the quake - and then doubled again on Monday. The prospect of
ever-mushrooming numbers of people mobilized the public information staff into
action.

The crowds may have fallen off but that does not mean that many of the people in
line don't have a legitimate reason to be there. "We don't want to say anything
seeming to minimize what the Haitian people are going through," says Mr. Duguid.
"But inevitably there will be people who will try to slip through some crack."

Dorcet Wilfrid and Jules-Bernard Gabriel aren't trying to dupe their way into
the US, but their unfortunately now-common predicament - no shelter, no work --
is unlikely to be enough to get them to Miami. The two friends sold sodas on the
streets in Petit Goave, west of Port-au-Prince, until the earthquake hit: each
lost his house, and people stole their soda stock. So they hopped a tap-tap - a
Haitian bus - destination US embassy.

"We're going to wait and see if someone comes out here to hear us," says Mr.
Wilfrid. "We're hoping our very bad situation will warrant some sort of
privilege."

Elsewhere in the crowd, Aly Kerby is waiting to see if a family member is
granted a visa to accompany his three-year-old son - an American citizen - back
to the US.

"Everybody is trying either to leave, or if not that, then to get some
assistance," says Mr. Kerby, who is staying in Haiti to try to get his
shoe-importing business up-an-running again."Most people know they can't just go
to the US, but when you're desperate you will try."

Asked about the public information blitz the embassy undertook to avoid Haitians
wasting their time on line, Kerby says it's a good idea. "But even better would
be to communicate some sense of security and of having a future here to the
people of Haiti," he says. "Then people wouldn't be focused on leaving."

For more of our Haiti coverage, visit the Haiti topic page.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2010 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                             218 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            August 18, 2012 Saturday

What if US rockers were convicted of 'hooliganism' like Russia's Pussy Riot?;
Bands from 'Rage Against the Machine' to the 'Dixie Chicks' have harshly
criticized political leaders in the US. Like Russia's 'Pussy Riot,' shouldn't
they be charged with hooliganism?

BYLINE: Brad Knickerbocker Staff writer

LENGTH: 652 words


The two-year prison sentence for the women of "Pussy Riot" has us musing about
the political shenanigans of American performers.

Pussy Riot, you'll recall, is the Russian band convicted of "felony hooliganism"
for criticizing President Vladimir Putin in its performance of a "punk prayer"
in the Christ the Savior Cathedral in Moscow in February. The episode - the
women wore bright dresses and balaclavas as they lip-synched "Mother of God,
cast Putin out" - lasted less than a minute before security hustled them away.

Would such a thing in the United States be considered "hooliganism" (a wonderful
word bringing to mind European soccer fans and some congressional hearings)? If
so, should that be a punishable offense in this country, and what would be an
appropriate legal response?

Second Amendment Quiz

Let us consider some examples.

Former Metallica guitarist and Megadeth founder Dave Mustaine has called
President Obama "the most divisive president we've ever had."

Not only that, he's become a birther, according to a Daily Beast report.

"I know he was born somewhere else than America," Mustaine told a Canadian
television show. "How come he was invisible until became ... whatever he was in
Illinois?"

Rage Against the Machine guitarist Tom Morello writes in Rolling Stone that
Republican vice presidential nominee Paul Ryan (who claims to be a fan of the
band) "is the embodiment of the machine that our music has been raging against
for two decades."

"Don't mistake me, I clearly see that Ryan has a whole lotta 'rage' in him,"
Morello writes. "A rage against women, a rage against immigrants, a rage against
workers, a rage against gays, a rage against the poor, a rage against the
environment. Basically the only thing he's not raging against is the privileged
elite he's groveling in front of for campaign contributions."

Rolling Stone, of course, is a kind of samizdat for political dissidents among
the cultural elite.

At one of their concerts just before the US-led invasion of Iraq, the Dixie
Chicks famously declared: "Just so you know.... We do not want this war, this
violence, and we're ashamed that the President of the United States is from
Texas." And what can you say about Ted Nugent?

Among his less profane or vulgar political pronouncements, he's described the
Obama administration as "vile," "evil" and "America-hating," and he's suggested
that if the President is reelected "I will either be dead or in jail by this
time next year."

For sure, government officials are keeping a close eye on such things.

Nugent toned things down for a minute or two when the Secret Service paid him a
little visit.

"Ted Nugent, Kidd Rock, and Megadeth front man Dave Mustaine are all essentially
on the record as foot soldiers in a war against Obama's reelection," Obama
campaign manager Jim Messina was quoted as saying earlier this year. "As of
today we will be dedicating time, money and resources to monitoring the onstage
ramblings of political neophytes."

"Monitoring?" That sure sounds like thought police to us.

We mentioned congressional hearings, where "Code Pink" protestors frequently pop
up, waving signs and shouting imprecations and maledictions at lawmakers. They
did it at President Bush's second inaugural ceremony too.

Code Pink describes itself as "a women-initiated grassroots peace and social
justice movement working to end US funded wars and occupations, to challenge
militarism globally, and to redirect our resources into health care, education,
green jobs and other life-affirming activities."

If that's not subversive of America's natural political order, we don't know
what is. And would they get away with disrupting meetings of the Russian
Parliament? We don't think so.

That's hooliganism plain and simple, and it needs to be dealt with
appropriately.

For musician-activists disrespecting our national leaders, we recommend several
hours of Lawrence Welk re-runs.

Second Amendment Quiz

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                             219 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            February 25, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Serbia's choice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 474 words


For Americans, last week's fiery attack  on the U.S. Embassy in Belgrade evoked
unpleasant memories of the more calamitous Iran hostage crisis three decades
earlier in Tehran, when 52 U.S. diplomats were held for 444 days.

For Serbs, the violence underscores the stark choice they face about their
future. They can either stick with the nationalist pipe dream promoted by the
late Serb strongman Slobodan Milosevic, or they can enter the modern world.

The ghost of Milosevic hung over the attacks on the U.S. Embassy and other
diplomatic compounds. It is his specter, and all the madness it symbolizes, that
needs to be put to rest.

The immediate trigger of the riots was that the United States and others
recognized a declaration of independence by Kosovo, the latest part of the
former Yugoslavia to break away. For many Serbs, that recognition was like
waving a red rag at a bull. Although Kosovo has for decades been a
semiautonomous province of Serbia, inhabited mainly by ethnic Albanians, for
Serbs it is not just any old piece of land.

Kosovo has so much significance for Serbs that it was where Milosevic chose to
make a speech in 1987  that ignited his ruinous wars for a Greater Serbia. Even
though few Serbs live there, it is the place they consider the cradle of their
civilization, and it is littered with Serb monuments and monasteries.

Yet the hard reality is that Kosovo is not going to be part of Serbia again. It
has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,  when NATO fought a war
against Serb troops sent to ethnically cleanse the province. Although violence
in the Balkans has subsided in the past decade, tensions continue to simmer.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has played a singularly unhelpful role in
stirring the pot and encouraging Serb stubbornness; Russia blocked U.N.
recognition of Kosovo in the Security Council, putting its declaration of
independence into a legal limbo and reviving Cold War antagonisms.

As for the Serbs, recent elections showed them split fairly evenly between
stubborn nationalism, including intransigence over Kosovo, and the opportunities
of European Union membership that come with facing reality. Voters narrowly
re-elected a more pro-Western president, Boris Tadic.

Serbs are suffering badly from their isolation from Europe. Once the most
prosperous center of the former Yugoslavia, Serbia has become an economic
backwater with about 20% unemployment.

If there's any hopeful news, it is that younger Serbs, for the most part, tend
to side with the future. They'd rather join Europe and end their isolation than
keep Kosovo. Over the weekend, the world condemned the violence in Belgrade.
That should help send a two-pronged message to Serb leaders: They have an
obligation to protect embassies -- and the best choice for their nation's future
is to banish Milosevic's ghost.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, Marko Drobnjakovic, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: DEBATE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2008 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             220 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                              May 11, 2008 Sunday
                                 Metro Edition

PERSONALLY;
A mom's most difficult task;
They're growing up;
and as they look to spread their wings, we struggle with when and how to let go.

BYLINE: SUSAN M. BARBIERI, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SOURCE; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 597 words


I'm driving slowly down a residential street in the family's red sedan while my
7-year-old, on the sidewalk, cuts a parallel path on her little red scooter.
Window open for communication, I am ground control, she's Orbiter 1.

People milling about on the sidewalk look at me suspiciously until Orbiter 1
yells:

"Mommy! Stop!"

She sets the scooter down, looks both ways and walks over to the idling car,
smiling her big jack-o-lantern smile. I get a sugar-sweet smooch on the cheek.

This slow-speed chase was her idea. The plan: She would scooter home from
after-school care, and I would follow in the car. If she needed help, she could
holler. I was happy to go along, because at least she didn't ask to scooter home
by herself. That would have gotten a firm no, and she then would persist: "When
can I? How old do I have to be?"

And I would wonder, yet again, what the answer to that question should be.

How old should a child be to ride or walk home from school by himself? Cross
streets by herself? Ride his bike around the block?

I need answers. A number, a reference chart, something solid. "How old should a
child be to cross streets by herself?" I type into Google. I get 1,680,000 hits.

Every time I have to let go a little, I get a small, sick pang in the heart. But
she needs the gift of trust and independence. I try giving little freedoms, such
as dropping her off at the door of the dance studio and retrieving her
afterward. With that small, sick feeling, I watch those restless legs in their
pink tights disappear inside before I drive off, full of guilt.

She must know what these moments cost me; I'm often rewarded with a dimpled
smile, a reassuring hug or a kiss.

There have been times when I've wished for a clingy kid instead of a recklessly
independent, runs-off-in-the-store kind of kid. I let her ride from corner to
corner in front of the house, but she is a boundary-tester. She wants to ride
down the alley to her friend's house. She wants to ride her bike around the
block. For a 7-year-old, Around The Block has the powerful, alluring mystique of
Over The Rainbow.

I Google "How old should a child be to ride their bike around the block?"
1,500,000 hits.

My husband is fond of repeating a certain tiresome in-the-olden-days story. It
goes something like this:

"When I was a kid, my brothers and I would ride our bikes all over town. We'd
take the bus to Minneapolis by ourselves ..." yada-yada-blah-blah-blah.

Then I get to retell my own threadbare tale:

"When I was growing up in Detroit, I often walked several blocks to and from
school. The Tigers won the pennant during the 1967 riots, and us kids rode our
bikes all over the neighborhood to celebrate ..." yada-yada-blah-blah-blah.

It's a different world today, I remind him. Somehow, the lurid underbelly of
life seems more lurid now. Still, we sometimes have to quash that screaming red
fear and let them expand their orbit. A little.

During one cold April rain, she wanted to go out back and stomp in the puddles.
In just her T-shirt, skort and rain boots. She waited expectantly for my answer.
Dire warnings about getting soaked and catching pneumonia ran through my head --
my mom's voice. Then my own stream of free-floating fears.

I let her go out. She passed from sight, but I could hear her happily chattering
away as she splashed under the steady, frigid drizzle. I fetched a warm towel.

"You're the best mom in the world to let her do that," my husband said, as we
watched her slop to the door, drenched.

How does a mom learn to let go?

Through 4,010,000 little hits to the heart.

Susan M. Barbieri - 612-673-4782

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             221 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             August 29, 2008 Friday
                                 Metro Edition

Morello testifies;
He may have a lot in common with Obama, but Rage Against the Machine's guitarist
is protesting both conventions.

BYLINE: CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: VARIETY; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 760 words


He's a 40-something, Harvard-educated African-American from Illinois. But even
all those "eerie similarities," as he put it, are not enough for Rage Against
the Machine guitarist Tom Morello to get fully behind Barack Obama.

So who and what does one of rock's most outspoken activists believe in, and why
is he coming to town for the Republican National Convention?

He let us know in a phone interview Monday, sandwiched between Rage's headlining
set at last weekend's mammoth Reading Festival in England -- where the band
played its entire opening song dressed in Guantanamo Bay prisoner garb
(bag-covered heads and all) -- and its concert Wednesday during the Democratic
convention.

Q What do you hope to achieve during these conventions?

A It's important for those of us who do not share the vision of either of the
two political parties to continue to organize and struggle and protest and to
let our views be known. I believe that they represent the views of tens of
millions of Americans who want universal health care, an immediate end to the
war, an end to torture and prosecution of the criminals who have perpetrated
these domestic and foreign crimes. Those voices need to be heard, and heard
forcefully.

Q Are you targeting one convention more than the other in terms of anger and
protest?

A I'm playing three shows at the DNC and at least two at the RNC. They're for
very different things. The Rage performance at the DNC is to support Iraq
Veterans Against the War. One of the other shows there is to support the Ralph
Nader proposition to open the debates to more ideas and more parties.

In Minneapolis and St. Paul, I'm proud to be playing the show for the SEIU
(Service Employee Industry Union) to "take back Labor Day" and support unions
and working-class issues, and then the Rage show there is part of the umbrella
of protest against the past, present and future crimes of Republicans.

Q You have a history of working with the SEIU and didn't just latch onto it for
this concert. What attracted you to it?

A I come from a strong union background, an Illinois coal-miner family, and I
have been a member of Musicians Local No. 47 in Hollywood for 20 years or so.
The SEIU is the fastest-growing labor union in the United States and it
represents a large segment of people who need much more of a voice and much more
of a toehold in the ongoing struggle for social and economic justice. I support
them wholeheartedly.

Q We keeping hearing and reading hints that Rage is going to pull some kind of a
"stunt" here. Any more of a hint what that might be?

A We have a show booked at the Target Center. That's all I'm saying (laughs).

Q The Rage show at the 2000 Democratic convention is still a point of
controversy. How do you remember it?

A There wasn't a whole lot of controversy -- there was an enormous police riot.
At the end of it, there were probably between 20 to 40 Black Bloc anarchist
protesters who were attempting to scale a fence. It was a situation that
could've easily been contained by the thousands of riot police. Instead, they
gave an order that these 10,000 to 15,000 kids in a tight, penned-in area had 15
minutes to leave. They only gave them two minutes, and then they attacked them.
There's video, you can see it happen that way.

At the time, the Los Angeles police stated very clearly they were not going to
let this become another Seattle. The reports from my friends on the streets of
Denver is there's a similar vibe there, but who knows?

Q Anything to worry about here?

A The protesters may have something to worry about, but not the police. There
could always be a police riot; that's happened throughout the history of this
great land. I certainly hope it won't happen in your fine city, though.

Q What about the people who believe musicians should just shut up and sing and
leave politics offstage?

A If you're a musician who lives in the United States, when you pick up a
guitar, you don't put down the Constitution. The only time people ever criticize
performers or entertainers for expressing a political opinion is when it
disagrees with their own political opinions. When it's an actor, like Ronald
Reagan or Arnold Schwarzenegger, they're lauded for their fluent political
acumen. You don't have to have an honors degree in political science from
Harvard University to speak out on these matters. I do, of course, but you don't
need that to know right from wrong.

Chris Riemenschneider - 612-673-4658

RAGE AGAINST THE MACHINE

With: Anti-Flag.

When: 7:30 p.m. Wed.

Where: Target Center, 600 1st Av. N., Mpls.

Tickets: $60. 651-989-5151.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             222 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday

Ruffians blamed in Afghan riots;
U.S. forces chided;
Parliament calls for prosecuting soldiers

BYLINE: Carlotta Gall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: KABUL


As they swept up broken glass and boarded up windows and doors, Kabul residents
placed blame for rioting Monday on young hoodlums and criminal gangs who seized
on a fatal accident involving a U.S. military convoy to spark a citywide
conflagration.

But they also criticized the U.S. military for its arrogance, saying military
vehicles frequently crush civilian cars, and they doubted that the government or
the military would conduct an honest investigation of the incident.

Afghanistan's Parliament has approved a nonbinding motion calling for the
government to prosecute the U.S. soldiers responsible for the crash, The
Associated Press reported Wednesday.

While a survey of hospitals on Monday found 14 people dead from the rioting, the
Interior Ministry said Tuesday that 12 had been killed, including one policeman,
and that 138 had been wounded. Afghan troops were deployed across the capital
Tuesday, sitting atop armored personnel carriers at main intersections. General
Jamil Junbish, the Kabul police chief, said a curfew would be enforced for a
second night.

There was an unmistakably anti-government and anti-American tinge to Monday's
protests. In the main square, rioters torched a huge banner of President Hamid
Karzai, who is frequently caricatured by his opponents as a puppet of
Washington. A similar banner of the late commander of the anti-Taliban Northern
Alliance, Ahmed Shah Massoud, who was assassinated by Al Qaeda on Sept. 9, 2001,
remained untouched.

While Karzai blamed opportunists for the violence, many in the city, including
Western diplomats and aid workers, said the protests appeared spontaneous and
were aggravated by frustration with joblessness and the slow pace of
reconstruction, despite the hopes raised by a new Afghan government.

''It was frustration at the whole process, especially the lack of reconstruction
and security,'' said Faheem Dashty, the editor of The Kabul Weekly newspaper.
''For the last four years, people were waiting to see some changes in the
government. But they did not see it.''

Other residents complained about the presence of not only foreign troops but
also Western aid workers, who live in upscale compounds, drive fancy SUVs and,
in many Afghans' minds, are responsible for the spread of vices like alcohol
consumption and prostitution. Protesters even trashed the headquarters of CARE
International, one of the longest-serving nongovernmental organizations and much
loved in Kabul for its work with war widows and the poor.

But CARE officials said the group was targeted only because of its location.
''It was unfortunate that we were in the way of this demonstration,'' said Paul
Barker, the country director for CARE, as he sat at a borrowed desk near the
smoldering ruins of his burnt-out office.

The American and Afghan authorities sought to reduce tensions from the fatal
crash Monday, in which a U.S. military truck crashed into 12 cars, killing five
people and wounding scores.

The U.S. Embassy expressed its regret at the loss of life and blamed a
mechanical failure. ''The vehicle apparently lost the ability to brake due to a
mechanical failure,'' said the ambassador, Ronald Neumann, in a statement that
also promised compensation for the victims and a full investigation.

Junbish also said there was no doubt the car crash was an accident, and
dismissed claims by demonstrators that the truck had deliberately rammed
civilian cars.

Yet a team from an international aid agency said it had seen the military convoy
driving fast and aggressively on its way to Kabul on Monday morning, and said it
had crashed into one or two vehicles on the main highway outside the city, even
before the large pileup in the northern district of Khair Khana.

Jawed Ludin, the chief of staff to Karzai, said in an interview with a local
television channel that an investigation into the car crash and subsequent riots
would reveal an element of organization and political opposition in the riots
against the government and its foreign backers.

Ludin also accused police forces of failing to bring security to the city and
said that some had even taken off their uniforms and joined the demonstrators
and looters.

Junbish defended the performance of his police officers but said they lacked
resources, in particular tear gas, water hoses and other crowd-control
equipment.

He also insisted that the police had fired into the air, and refused to accept
police responsibility for deaths and injuries Monday.

Junbish said 106 people had been arrested during and after the violence. In a
separate incident, two Afghans working for a development organization whose name
was not disclosed were killed in a roadside explosion in the northern province
of Badakhshan, and two Americans traveling in the same convoy were slightly
wounded.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             223 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            February 25, 2008 Monday

Serbs struggle with a massive change

BYLINE: Nicholas Kulish - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

DATELINE: BELGRADE


Nationalist hooligans may have been behind the torching of the U.S. Embassy
here, but the feelings of anger, sorrow and betrayal over the loss of Kosovo cut
across all segments of Serbian society.

The world is waiting to see whether the riots Thursday were the final spasm of
anger in Serbia or the first tremor in a new Balkan earthquake. And the
deep-seated disappointment of even the most staunchly pro-Western Serbs suggests
that there will be no easy rapprochement following the declaration of
independence by Kosovo's overwhelming ethnic-Albanian majority.

Jasmina Petkovic, 31, is the kind of young Serb that European Union leaders are
counting on to lead the country back into the Western fold. She favors rapid
entry into the European Union for her country and was actively engaged for years
in the demonstrations against Slobodan Milosevic, marching in the cold and
choking on tear gas to help rid the country of its dictator.

As an arts organizer at the Belgrade Cultural Center, Petkovic produces events
of classical music, literature and visual arts, regularly working with foreign
artists. She has an Italian boyfriend. ''If you were here on Sunday,'' Petkovic
told a foreign reporter over the weekend, referring to the day of Kosovo's
independence declaration a week earlier, ''I would be spitting on America,
cursing Europeans, saying, 'You are stealing our territory, just because you are
bigger and you can do it.' ''

The depth of her sadness and anger surprised even her, she said.

Yet on Thursday night, when she heard the breaking glass and caught the
all-too-familiar scent of tear gas in her nearby apartment during the attack on
the American Embassy, all she felt was disappointment and shame at the violent
actions of her countrymen. ''You always think this is the worst thing possible
and it isn't true,'' she said in excellent English. ''It's always getting
worse.''

The meaning of Kosovo Province to Serbs is neatly encapsulated in phrases like
''ancestral heartland'' that do little to capture its depth and centrality as a
symbol of national pride.

Supporters of Kosovo's independence argue that Milosevic's brutal subjugation of
ethnic Albanians in Kosovo forsook Serbia's moral and legal claim to rule the
territory.

Policy makers in Washington and Brussels may have seriously underestimated the
Serbian bond to Kosovo, experts here say, adding that they can only hope its
severing will not lead Serbia into a new era of isolation that would be
destabilizing for the entire region.

''They were probably hinging too much on these polls that Serbia would wake up
the next day and say, 'Let's get on with life,' '' said Ivan Vejvoda, executive
director of the Balkan Trust for Democracy, a nonprofit grant-making
organization in Serbia. ''I think they underestimated this cultural attachment,
that at the moment of loss the emotions run high.''

The independence of Kosovo is by far the hardest blow in the series of
secessions from the former Yugoslavia that began in 1991 with Croatia, Slovenia
and Macedonia.

After years of watching the country whittled down - in 2006 Montenegro
peacefully ended its union with Serbia - there was an expectation among
reform-minded Serbs that, having rid themselves of Milosevic and embraced
democracy, their case would be heard differently.

''Now we've been doing things the right way and it's still not good enough and
Serb national interests are crushed,'' said Ljiljana Smajlovic, editor in chief
of the prominent Serbian newspaper Politika.

Belgrade has been quiet since the attacks on several embassies and the looting
of shops. Locals marveled at how quickly things appeared to have gone back to
normal. But the scorch marks on the embassy facade and the police with riot
shields in front of it, testify to the air of uneasiness and uncertainty.

''It's Kostunica who let the people do this,'' said a Belgrade resident passing
by the embassy, referring to the country's nationalist prime minister, Vojislav
Kostunica.

''We don't think that this was something that was ordered and organized by the
government,'' said a senior official at a Western embassy in Belgrade, who was
not authorized to comment on the speculation of government involvement.

The 70 police officers guarding the U.S. Embassy when the riot began were
clearly overwhelmed by the crowd, the official said.

What was unclear was whether the two-hour delay in getting reinforcements was a
tactical error or the result of a more deliberate decision.

For many, anti-American feelings are deeply ingrained. A short walk down Kneza
Milosa Street from the U.S. Embassy, the ruins of the hulking former Yugoslav
Defense Ministry still stands as a grotesque monument to the NATO bombing
campaign in 1999.

The airstrikes were intended to oust Serbian forces that had committed
widespread atrocities against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo, but that did not
diminish the bitterness many Serbians here still feel at being attacked.

Radoslav Zelenovic, the general director of the Yugoslav Film Archive in
Belgrade, which houses 95,000 films from all over the world, the largest share
of which are American, lights up when he describes the white-jacketed orchestra,
the airplanes and the live actors they gathered in Belgrade for the 50th
anniversary screenings of ''Casablanca'' in 1992.

But after the archive was struck during the NATO airstrikes, though they rescued
the films, Zelenovic said his view of America altered drastically.

Zelenovic, who grew up in Kosovo, likened the loss of the province for Serbia to
an amputation without anesthesia. But he deplored the attack on the embassy,
saying that diplomacy at the United Nations Security Council was ''the next step
in the fight for Kosovo to come back within the Serbian border.''

The United States failed to gain the necessary support in the Security Council
for a resolution in favor of the independence of Kosovo, which has also been
recognized by some large West European countries but opposed by Russia, China
and even Spain.

The lack of United Nations endorsement is consistently cited by the Serbian
government and people on the street as proof that Kosovo's declaration of
independence was illegitimate.

Petkovic said she could not help noting the irony of the United States response
to the embassy attack. ''The first reaction of American authorities was that
they will put the protest in the United Nations Security Council,'' she said
with a wry smile.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             225 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday

Senate Democrats call for a $200 million increase in foreign food aid

BYLINE: David M. Herszenhorn - The New York Times Media Group

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Citing hunger riots in developing countries and soaring grain prices around the
world, Democrats in the U.S. Senate called for a swift increase of $200 million
in foreign food aid, on top of an additional $350 million that President George
W. Bush has requested in a supplemental spending measure.

In response, the administration urged Congress to give it more flexibility to
buy food for donation from local and regional providers, a method that
anti-hunger experts say is cheaper and more efficient than buying and shipping
American commodities. In addition, they say, it encourages agricultural
development.

This month, Bush directed the Agriculture Department to release $200 million in
commodities to help address the crisis. The U.S. Agency for International
Development said Monday that it was coordinating that program, plus another $40
million in emergency food aid.

Usaid said the World Food Program, a United Nations agency, and private
organizations would deliver those resources to Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
Ethiopia, Haiti, Kenya, Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda and Zimbabwe.

At a news conference, Senators Richard Durbin of Illinois and Robert Casey Jr.
of Pennsylvania, both Democrats, called for adding $200 million in food aid to
the supplemental spending measure that will provide $350 million in additional
financing for military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.

''This is the worst global food crisis in more than 30 years,'' Durbin said.
''It threatens not only the health and survival of millions of people around the
world, many of them children, but it also is a threat to global security.

''As many as 36 countries, almost one-fifth of the world's nations, are now
facing food crises requiring help from abroad.''

A spokesman for the White House, Scott Stanzel, said the administration was
monitoring the crisis and moving swiftly to respond.

''We appreciate the shared concerns of members of Congress,'' Stanzel said.

He urged greater flexibility in running the programs.

''The president has continually asked Congress to support an innovative proposal
to provide food assistance by purchasing crops directly from farmers in the
developing world,'' he said. ''This flexibility would not only get food to
people in emergency situations faster, it would also build up local agriculture
and help break the cycle of famine. Unfortunately, Congress has repeatedly
failed to act on this proposal.''

The administration has urged Congress to use the farm bill, which is in
House-Senate talks, to allow up to 25 percent of U.S. food aid to be bought from
local or regional providers. In 2007, the United States donated more than 1.5
million metric tons of food, valued at $1.2 billion.

The Senate proposed a much more modest pilot program to buy up to $25 million in
food for donation from producers overseas. Farm bill negotiators continued to
debate that Monday.

Separately on Monday, three Democrats, Senators Tom Harkin of Iowa, Jeff
Bingaman of New Mexico and Bill Nelson of Florida, and a Republican, Senator Bob
Corker of Tennessee, sent a letter to Bush urging at least $60 million in added
emergency food aid, specifically for Haiti, which has had food riots.

''The United States must now demonstrate leadership and resolve and help one of
its closest neighbors,'' the senators wrote. ''We must come to the aid of the
Haitian people.''

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             226 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday

Protests boil as Ayatollah offers inquiry;
Iranian opposition chief finally appears in public with an appeal for calm

BYLINE: Robert F. Worth and Nazila Fathi - The New York Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: TEHRAN


The Iranian opposition leader, Mir Hussein Moussavi, appeared publicly Monday
for the first time in more than two days to call for calm as Iran's supreme
leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, called for a high-level inquiry into accusations
of election irregularities.

But more than half a million protesters massed in the streets of Tehran to renew
the challenge to the outcome of the vote. Demonstrations were reported in other
cities as well, despite the continued blocking of text-messaging services and
disruption of Web sites and some cellphone networks.

Mr. Moussavi met with the supreme leader Sunday night, several news agencies
quoted state television as reporting. Ayatollah Khamenei then asked that the
powerful Guardian Council ''precisely examine'' Mr. Moussavi's charges of
irregularities, state media said.

The council will make its findings known in 10 days, according to the state
media reports.

The ayatollah's call appeared to be a shift in his public position that the
vote, which gave President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad an overwhelming victory, had been
fair. But it was unclear whether the aim was quelling protests or a genuine
reexamination of an election whose official results he had already approved.

The protesters gathered in Tehran despite a government ban on further
demonstrations, and at one point Mr. Moussavi apparently called off the rally,
which was to begin at Tehran University and reach Azadi Square, several miles
away.

Some Iranian Web sites and telephone lines appeared to be disrupted. Earlier,
Reuters said stick-wielding supporters of Mr. Ahmadinejad clashed with marching
backers of Mr. Moussavi. Other reports said some of Mr. Ahmadinejad's followers
paraded outside the British and French Embassies in Tehran following remarks by
political leaders in London and Paris casting doubt on the Iranian leadership's
conduct.

Opposition Web sites reported that security forces raided a dormitory at Tehran
University and 15 people were injured. Between 150 and 200 students were
arrested overnight, by these accounts, but there was no immediate confirmation
of the arrests from the authorities. There were also reports of official action
against students in the cities of Esfahan, Shiraz and Tabriz.

In Moscow, meanwhile, an official at the Iranian Embassy said Mr. Ahmadinejad
had delayed a visit to Russia that was to have started Monday, for a meeting in
Yekaterinburg of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, which includes Russia,
China and four Central Asian countries. He now plans to travel Tuesday, the
official said.

As concern about the vote spread among Western governments, the European Union's
27 member states planned to issue a joint call on Iran to clarify the election
outcome, Reuters reported. The French government summoned the Iranian ambassador
to register concern about the fairness of the vote, and the German government
planned to follow suit.

The Spanish foreign minister, Miguel çngel Moratinos, said in Luxembourg,
''There is a need to clarify the situation and to express our concern'' that a
sector of the Iranian population was having ''difficulties in expressing its
opinion.'' In Berlin, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany called for a
''transparent examination'' of reports of irregularities.

The developments followed a weekend of growing tension. On Sunday, word spread
that more than 100 prominent opposition members had been detained; riots erupted
in Tehran and other cities; and the triumphant incumbent hinted that his top
challenger risked punishment for questioning the result.

At the same time, two of the three opposition candidates and a clerical group
issued statements requesting an annulment of the ballot held Friday, which gave
a lopsided victory to Mr. Ahmadinejad, a conservative who has become a
polarizing figure at home and abroad.

It was unclear how much further Mr. Ahmadinejad's adversaries were willing or
able to go in challenging the result. But supporters of the opposition
candidates skirmished with baton-wielding riot police officers on the edges of a
government-organized victory rally in Tehran. The protests were echoed by
Iranians demonstrating against the election results in Washington and in several
European capitals.

Mr. Ahmadinejad dismissed the opposition's allegations of fraud, saying that the
victory had given him a bigger mandate than ever.

Those resisting the election results gained a potentially important new ally
Sunday when a moderate clerical body, the Association of Combatant Clergy,
issued a statement posted on reformist Web sites saying that the vote was rigged
and calling for it to be annulled. The statement warned that ''if this process
becomes the norm, the republican aspect of the regime will be damaged and people
will lose confidence in the system.''

Mr. Moussavi called for the clergy to join his protest in an open letter late
Saturday. It is difficult to say how influential the statement by the
association, made up of 27 moderate clerics, will be in Iran's complex and
opaque power structure, but Ayatollah Khamenei, who has the last word on many
important matters, is sensitive to clerical opinion.

The Interior Ministry announced Saturday that Mr. Ahmadinejad had won about 63
percent of the vote, after a hard-fought election campaign and the rise of a
broad reform-oriented opposition that clearly had rattled Iran's ruling elite.
Opposition leaders have catalogued a list of what they call election violations
and irregularities in the vote, which most observers had expected to go to a
second-round runoff.

The opposition members arrested late Saturday and Sunday were from all the major
factions opposed to Mr. Ahmadinejad and included the brother of a former
president, Mohammad Khatami, opposition Web sites reported. Some were released
after several hours.

Mr. Ahmadinejad called the opposition protesters ''unimportant,'' comparing them
with disappointed soccer fans after a match. He suggested the accusations of
fraud were the work of foreign agitators and journalists.

The international reaction that trickled out Sunday was anything but a
resounding affirmation, however. In the United States, Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. said there appeared to be ''some real doubt'' about the results. But
he said the United States would press on with its effort to engage the Iranian
government. The official IRNA news agency reported that President Hugo Chávez of
Venezuela had congratulated the incumbent. Some Arab governments, notably Syria
and Qatar, also welcomed Mr. Ahmadinejad's re-election.

- Clifford J. Levy contributed reporting from Moscow, Alan Cowell from Paris and
Victor Homola from Berlin.

**

CAPTION:

Public appearance

The opposition leader Mir Hussein Moussavi, in gray shirt with arms raised,
addressed his supporters Monday in the capital. An estimated half million people
massed.

Photo Credit: Behrouz Mehri/Agence France0-Presse

**

CAPTION:

Riot police stand guard among thousands of supporters of the opposition leader
Mir Hussein Moussavi in Tehran on Monday.

Photo Credit:

Abedin Taherkenareh/European Pressphoto Agency

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             227 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

'US economy, London riots on Afghan war'

LENGTH: 235 words

DATELINE: Kabul


Kabul, Aug. 16 -- The Taliban blamed the state of the US economy and last week's
London riots on the war in Afghanistan in a statement published on its website
today.

The insurgents claimed both situations were linked to the US and Britain
spending hundreds of billions of dollars on the ten-year war in Afghanistan and
again urged foreign troops to pull out of the country. The Taliban are known to
exaggerate and distort their public statements as part of a propaganda campaign
accompanying a bloody armed insurgency. "With no doubt, the immense and basic
reason of the financial crises, deprivation and riots that United States and UK
are facing now is because of the offensive and imperialistic policies and
designs of these countries," a statement published on the Taliban's website
said. The statement repeated the Taliban's call for all foreign troops to leave
Afghanistan and warned that if they did not, the US's financial troubles would
"push you to the hollow of destruction like the Soviet Union." Earlier this
month, the militants also said they had shot down a US helicopter in central
Afghanistan, killing 38 troops in the biggest single incident loss of life for
foreign forces of the whole war Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             228 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

1984 riots: US court reserves verdict in Nath case

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: New York


New York, Sept. 23 -- A US federal court has reserved judgment on Indian Urban
Development Minister Kamal Nath's claim for diplomatic immunity in a case over
his alleged role in the November 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Judge Robert W. Sweet of the US Federal Court for the Southern District of New
York reserved his judgement after hearing arguments for about 45 minutes in the
case filed by Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), a US based human rights advocacy group.
SFJ requested the court to issue a default judgment against Kamal Nath for
failing to respond within 21 days after receiving the Summons on April 6, 2010.
IT has also demanded a "jury trial" from the court during which plaintiffs will
submit documentary evidence on the alleged participation of Kamal Nath and other
Congress party leaders in the Nov 1984 riots. The Sikh group is also planning to
hold a protest rally Saturday during Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's address to
the UN General Assembly to demand sacking of Kamal Nath from the cabinet and
prosecution of Congress leaders involved in the 1984 riots Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             229 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday

Pakistan: Pakistan always told US unilateral actions were unacceptable: PM

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Oct. 05 -- Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza

Gilani on Monday said the government had always reacted to the

negative messages of United States (US) and after the May 2 incident

he told Secretary of State Hillary Clinton that unilateral actions

like Abbottabad were unacceptable.

Responding to various points raised by Leader of the Opposition

Chaudhary Nisar Ali Khan, the Prime Minister told the National Assembly

that he had warned the US in 2009 that electricity shortage in Pakistan could
result in riots and if they (US) wanted friendship with the latter they should
help resolve its energy issue.

Prime Minister Gilani said that Pakistan was in more of a need

of civil nuclear technology deal, while the US signed the

agreement with India.

He said he could have summoned a joint sitting of Parliament on the

issue but he opted to call an all parties conference so that the participation
of political parties, who had boycotted the previous polls, could be ensured on
this important matter.

The Prime Minister said if some political parties were

neglected in the APC that could be an error.

"We had invited political parties from Balochistan but some

of them excused from participation while some of them told us that

they were morally with us," he sai Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             230 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

Who is Rick Perry?

BYLINE: Richard Adamsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 730 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Adams: Who is Rick Perry? Here's a compendium of articles profiling the
Texas governor and Republican presidential candidate

FULL TEXT

Who is Rick Perry? If you haven't heard by now you soon will: the longest
serving governor in the history of Texas  for the Republican presidential
nomination in Charleston, South Carolina.

For background, here's some of the more insightful profiles and reporting on
Perry's life and times.


We were fairly self-sustaining. Mom was a very, very good seamstress and still
is. She made my sister's clothes; she made a lot of my shirts. Now, with blue
jeans we wore Levi's. But when I went to college, Mother still made my
underwear.


He has never lost an election, including an elementary school contest for "king"
of the Paint Creek School Carnival. He secured that win by handing out pennies
for votes.


Another political move Mr Perry made back then: he was a top Texas supporter and
organizer in 1988 for Al Gore, who ran as a Southern conservative rather than
the populist reformer he eventually became as the 2000 Democratic presidential
nominee.


There's no mistaking it - Perry is a strong conservative. He's favored some of
the most pro-growth, anti-abortion-rights and pro-gun measures of any state. But
it's a mistake to say that he takes his talking points from a Rush Limbaugh or
Sean Hannity.


The tensions first spilled out publicly in 2007, when a video wound up on
YouTube capturing Mr Perry speaking dismissively of Mr Bush at a Republican
house party in Iowa for former Mayor Rudolph W Giuliani of New York. In the
video, Mr Perry said, "George Bush was never a fiscal conservative - never was,"
adding, "I mean, '95, '97, '99, George Bush was spending money."


When Rick Perry arrived at Texas A&M University in 1968, it was at the end of a
summer in which Soviet troops crushed the Prague Spring, protesters at the
Democratic National Convention were met by a police riot and the United States
reeled from the twin assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr and Robert F
Kennedy.


Of the many reasons to fancy his chances, one is that winning has become a
habit. Three consecutive victories in Texas have made Mr Perry America's
longest-serving governor. His most recent primary, against the popular Senator
Kay Bailey Hutchison in 2010, was not expected to be a walkover but he made it
one.


He knows how to talk like an evangelical," remarks Richard Land, director of the
Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, and
another honorary co-chair of the prayer day. "His heart is in the right place.
On most [cultural conservative] issues he's had a good record as governor. He
will appeal to evangelicals.


Perry is a friend of the Aga Khan, the religious leader of the Ismailis, a sect
of Shia Islam that claims a reported 15 to 20 million adherents worldwide.
Sprouting from that friendship are at least two cooperation agreements between
the state of Texas and Ismaili institutions, including a far-reaching program to
educate Texas schoolchildren about Islam.


He is the most successful fund-raiser in the history of Texas politics," said
Craig McDonald, director of Texans for Public Justice, a watchdog organization
that tracks campaign spending. "He may be the best in the country. He will have
no trouble raising the money he needs for his presidential campaign.


In addition to his changing concerns over government intrusion, Perry's also got
a bit of a consistency problem where states' rights are concerned - once again,
when it comes to women's bodies. Perry recently said he wanted Roe v Wade
overturned so states could decide for themselves. But then he declared his
support for a federal constitutional amendment that would overturn Roe and ban
abortion nationwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             231 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

The Detroit riots of 1967 hold some lessons for the UK

BYLINE: Gary Youngeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1703 words

ABSTRACT

After America's deadliest riots, a journalist and a professor proved that many
assumptions about the looters were wrong

FULL TEXT

Early in the morning on Sunday 23 July 1967 the Detroit police raided an
after-hours drinking establishment where more than 80 black men and women were
celebrating the return of two Vietnam veterans. This in itself was hardly rare.
Police used to raid "blind pigs" all the time.

What was extraordinary was: an outpouring of protest, violence, looting, police
brutality and, ultimately, full-scale federal military intervention. "To live in
America, until recently, meant to be far from war," says Calliope Stephanides,
the protagonist in Jeffrey , which is set in the city at the time. "Wars
happened in south-east Asian jungles ... But then why, peeking out of the dormer
window, did I see a tank rolling by our front lawn?"

Before the week was out there were 43 dead, 467 injured, more than 7,200
arrests, and more than 2,000 buildings destroyed: the deadliest riots in US
history.

Nathan Caplan, a psychology professor at the University of Michigan's institute
for social research (ISR), was unconvinced by his colleagues' claims that the
riots were simply an expression of immaturity and social deviancy. So he went to
the affected neighbourhoods with one of his graduate students to conduct some
field research.

"There was still smoke in the air and bullets flying when we got there," recalls
Caplan. "My academic colleagues had a habit of interpreting reality as though
it's just a special case within theory. God forbid that anything they did became
useful or that they actually spoke to anybody."

At the same time, Philip Meyer, a national correspondent for Knight Newspapers,
which owned the Detroit Free Press, was also trying to break out of the
constraints of his discipline. Just a few weeks earlier Meyer had returned from
a career break as a Nieman fellow at Harvard, where he had studied social
research methods. "Politicians were using them and I felt journalists had to
understand them too," he explains.

When the riots in Detroit started he saw an opportunity to apply academic rigour
to journalistic reportage. "It struck me like a bolt of lightning," says Meyer.
"The University of California had just released their report into the Watts
riots and I thought, we could do this too. But people wouldn't have to wait two
years for the results. With journalists we could do it faster."

And so they did. Caplan and Meyer got together, drafted a questionnaire and then
trained 30 black interviewers to go into the affected areas and gather
information. The next week the interviewers went into the field, sending each
day's interviews back to the university. In the third week Meyer and Caplan
analysed the data and Meyer started writing it up. Just a month after the
disturbances had started, the Free Press published its findings.

Entitled The People Beyond 12th street: A Survey of Attitudes of Detroit Negroes
After the Riot of 1967, the report's methodology and language are very much of
their time.

Seeking to explain black Detroit to white America, it reads like an
anthropological survey of a foreign land. "In their alienation the rioters
display some similarity to hippies," reads one part. "Both feel that the world
is wrong and they want to set themselves apart from it. But hippies accept their
share of the world's guilt while rioters project it. The hippie hands you a
flower and says: 'Peace.' The rioter shouts: 'Get whitey' and throws a rock."

Nonetheless, even though by modern standards the sample was small and only a
minority of those they spoke to were rioters, its data was revelatory.

It showed that, contrary to popular belief, there was no correlation between
economic status or educational levels and propensity to riot. Nor had the riots
been the work of recent immigrants from the south. The main grievances were
police brutality, overcrowded living conditions, poor housing and lack of jobs.

Racial conflict

There are relatively few similarities between the Detroit riots in 1967 and
those in England last month. The unrest in Detroit was part of a national
conflagration led largely by the young. A riot had ended in Newark a week before
and would continue in Milwaukee and Washington DC just days after. But these
disturbances were rooted in racial conflict. "Detroit was becoming increasingly
black and the police force and the city government remained primarily white,"
explains the veteran Detroit activist and author Grace Lee Boggs. "So the
institutions in the city were seen as occupation forces."

It was also a pivotal moment in American racial history. A period of mass
activism in the south had produced civil rights legislation just a few years
before, securing black Americans the right to equality and the vote. 1967 was
the year Muhammad Ali refused to serve in Vietnam, Cleveland became the first
major city to elect a black mayor and bans on mixed-race marriages were finally
made unconstitutional.

But while the contexts in England in 2011 and in Detroit more than 40 years
earlier were quite different, many of the most popular explanations for the root
causes were startlingly similar. The youth of those involved and the looting led
many to dismiss those involved as just riffraff running amok.

"I was hearing that the riots were the product of immaturity and social deviancy
by the lumpenproletariat," recalls Caplan. "But that's not what we were
finding."

Then there is the apparent disconnect between the event that triggered the riot
and the prevailing conditions that might explain it. "Every riot has a
precipitating event," explains Meyer. "But then there are always more subtle
factors."

Indeed, thanks largely to union jobs at the city's car plants, African Americans
were materially better off in Detroit than elsewhere in the country. More than
40% owned their own homes. The city had the largest chapter of the NAACP, the
nation's oldest and largest civil rights organisation, in the country and was
the only city with two black congressmen.

By revealing there was no link between income or education levels and rioters,
and that those born in Detroit were three times more likely to have been
involved than those from the south, the ISR/Detroit Free Press survey provided
evidence that effectively countered popular misconceptions. "The riffraff theory
and the southern migrant theory just stopped being propagated," says Meyer.
"They were more likely to be young but that's because they had less to lose. In
that sense the young were like leading edge consumers."

"It gave an empirical basis to address some interpretations and it put them
straight into the public sphere," says Caplan.

It also gave voice to the complex attitudes towards social unrest in areas most
likely to play host to them. The overwhelming majority of black people in
Detroit at the time (84%) thought the riots could happen again. Only a quarter
believed they had more to gain than lose by resorting to violence. But,
explained Meyer at the time, "even those who think the long-term effects of
violence are likely to be bad see some compensating benefits". "They know we
mean business now," one 31-year-old told him.

The Kerner commission, set up by the president, Lyndon Johnson, to examine the
cause of the riots in Detroit and elsewhere, used the data from the Detroit Free
Press/ISR survey in reaching its findings. "What white Americans have never
fully understood - but what the Negro can never forget - is that white society
is deeply implicated in the ghetto," it argued. "White institutions created it,
white institutions maintain it, and white society condones it." Famously it
concluded: "Our nation is moving towards two societies, one black, one white -
separate and unequal."

A post-apocalyptic city

You can certainly see that society in Detroit today. Most respondents to the
survey believed the attitudes of whites towards blacks would improve over the
following five years. In fact whites just left the city en masse for the
suburbs; a few decades later more affluent blacks followed. Following the
collapse of the US car industry a couple of decades later, Detroit might best be
described as post-industrial. But the immediate impression is post-apocalyptic:
empty lots, abandoned houses, multistorey buildings left derelict, entire blocks
boarded up.  of its population in the past 10 years. It's what you would imagine
a city would look like when capitalism decides that it doesn't really need the
people any more.

Five minutes from 12th Street (which has been renamed Rosa Parks Boulevard) and
Clairmount, the intersection where the riot started, you can . The only ad on
the side of a row of dilapidated storefronts is for criminal defence lawyers.
And even that has been defaced.

So if poverty and poor education did not cause the riots, what did? Alongside
police brutality, Boggs describes an alienated youth who saw that technological
changes in manufacturing would make them economically obsolete. "Young people
felt expendable. They had to make a way out of no way."

The former black panther Wayne Curtis suggests that the apparent wealth belied
lives of discrimination. "Growing up we saw people riding around in Cadillac
convertibles. But we didn't see the conditions they worked in and the racism in
the factories. They still had to deal with the police. We just didn't understand
how marginalised they were."

Curtis recalls thinking that the civil rights victories had settled the question
of equality once and for all. "We were told that this was it; that if we could
vote everything would be OK. But it took a while to understand how the power
structure works."

Both Caplan and Meyer call this the problem of rising expectations. Having
fought for and ostensibly won social equality African Americans found that did
not translate into economic justice. "Young black kids just weren't getting
jobs," says Caplan. "The opportunity structure was just too narrow and everyone
knew it. So you would see young people breaking windows and looting stores. But
it was the older ones who were more frustrated and more militant in their
views."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             232 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

Police must accept journalists' confidential sources are sacrosanct

BYLINE: Henry McDonaldguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 821 words

ABSTRACT

Henry McDonald: The Guardian and Observer's Ireland correspondent explains why
police efforts to gain information about tipoffs he has received from terrorist
groups threatens both press freedom and his personal safety

FULL TEXT

The Police Service of Northern Ireland wants to get their hands on my mobile
phone. But if I was to agree to their request such a move could put my life in
danger as well as compromise my professionalism.

It all started just after lunch last Saturday when I took a call on the phone.
At the time I was having some time off with two of my children. We were inside
the Odyssey entertainment centre on the east bank of the river Lagan close to
Belfast city centre.

The kids were enjoying leaping and hopping about inside a bouncy castle topped
with a huge Spiderman head and decked out in the blue and red colours of the
Marvel comics' superhero. As they jumped around, the mobile rang, a withheld
call that I first assumed was from the Observer news desk.

In fact the caller had a local accent and wanted to transmit a message. The male
voice used a recognised codeword claiming to be from the "Continuity army
council of the IRA" AKA the Continuity IRA, one of the republican dissident
groups opposed to the peace process in Northern Ireland.

The caller had a claim of responsibility - CIRA had fired a rocket-propelled
grenade at a police patrol on a road between two roundabouts in Craigvon, not
far from the scene where the terror group shot dead constable Stephen Carroll
two years ago, the first PSNI officer killed by terrorists.

Having taken many of these rather clipped and chilling phone calls in the past I
knew what to do. First, to convey the claim to my own newsroom back in London;
second, to contact a local newsroom and let them know about this potential
security alert and finally the PSNI press office. To the latter, I relayed the
warning/claim and asked if they had had a report of a terrorist attack in the
North Armagh early on Saturday. At the time the PSNI press office said they had
no reports of an attack in the area.

Within 48 hours I had received two phone calls from police officers not only
asking about the call but also the possibility of examining my mobile phone
-presumably to try to trace the CIRA claim of responsibility.

Since then there have been no follow-up requests but nonetheless I am under
instruction from this newspaper not to hand over the phone and have sought the
advice of an experienced Belfast lawyer in order to get some legal protection
should the police come calling.

There are two issues at stake here. The first is press freedom and impartiality
and the ability of journalists to protect the confidentiality of sources, even
those who are totally anonymous and communicate in the ether. The second is
personal safety.

The latter principle has already been established in two other cases involving
Northern Ireland journalists - Suzanne Breen and Ed Moloney.

In regard to the Breen case she resisted attempts to seize her notes detailing
contact with the Real IRA following the dissidents' murder of two young soldiers
outside an army barracks in Antrim in March 2009. Her defence rested on the fear
that if she co-operated and handed over her interview material she could have
found herself in the Real IRA's crosshairs as the terror group might regard her
as an agent of the state. In short, she defended herself on the grounds that the
PSNI attempt to get her to hand over the notes violated her right to life.

Across Northern Ireland reporters and journalists face greater threats to press
freedom, source confidentiality and physical safety than any of their
counterparts in Britain. Much has been made of moves by police in England to
seize television footage of the August riots.

To those of us in Northern Ireland this is nothing new. A month earlier we had
riots during which not only petrol bombs but pipe bombs were thrown and shots
fired in east and later north Belfast. The PSNI is attempting to seize (and not
for the first time) the footage taken of the riots on the Newtonards Road and
Ardoyne. Not only would such a move potentially paint news crews as spies in the
eyes of republican terror groups, but also in the minds of the rioters who, as
night follows day, will return to Northern Irish streets in the next Ulster
marching season.

It is apposite that the Guardian in Northern Ireland, alongside broadcast
colleagues, is facing a new threat to open, free journalism.

Next week marks the 10th anniversary of the murder of Sunday World reporter
Martin O'Hagan. Martin was shot dead by terrorists from the Loyalist Volunteer
Force who objected to his work in exposing them as drug dealers, criminals and
sectarian murderers.

It is not only a travesty of justice that a decade on Martin's killers have not
been caught, but that by asking reporters to be detectives the police are in
danger of putting more of us in the firing line.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             233 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               February 12, 2014

UNTOUCHABLE, NO MORE

LENGTH: 489  words


US signals end of Modi boycott: Ambassador Nancy Powell to call on him

New Delhi/Washington: Signalling an end to nine years of boycott of Narendra
Modi in the aftermath of post-Godhra riots, US Ambassador to India Nancy Powell
is meeting the Gujarat Chief Minister on Thursday in Gandhinagar.



The US move marks a U-turn in its earlier stand of having nothing to do with
Modi, whose visa it cancelled in 2005 under a domestic law on the issue of
"severe violations of religious freedom". Ever since, it has refused to review
its policy.

Powell ostensibly wants to discuss with the BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate
issues related to the upcoming Lok Sabha polls. But the obvious reason is to
send out a political message to Modi, whose stars are on the ascendance.

Sources said the ambassador's request for a meeting has been accepted by Modi
and the exact time and date are being firmed up. "Most likely, the meeting will
take place on Thursday, February 13," a source said.

Before Powell's formal request, the US Embassy officials recently held a meeting
with some senior officials of the Gujarat government, during which the 2002
riots issue is believed to have been discussed among other subjects.

That interaction apparently set the stage for the meeting between Powell and
63-year-old Modi. In Washington, a US State Department spokesman told PTI, "We
can confirm the appointment (between Modi and Powell)." "This is part of our
concerted outreach to senior political and business leaders which began in
November to highlight the US-India relationship," the spokesperson said.

The go-ahead, just before the announcement of general elections in a few weeks
from now, seems to have been taken after intensive debate within the various
wings of the Obama Administration -- the White House and the State Department in
particular -- with crucial inputs from the members of the Congress, and the
influential leaders of the corporate sector, the US India Business Council in
particular. In the past few weeks, a series of public meetings organised by
influential think tanks here have concluded that the BJP-led by Modi was likely
to win the upcoming general elections and the US needs to review its policy, if
it wants to do business with him.The BJP welcomed the development saying it
means that ultimately the US has realised the importance of the Gujarat Chief
Minister. "The US has realised the extent of popular support for him and they
want to do away with their confrontationist approach. That is why, if they are
meeting, it is a good thing," BJP spokesperson Prakash Javadekar told PTI
outside Parliament. The European Union and Britain had lifted their ban on Modi
in 2013. Despite the thaw, the US is unlikely to offer a visa to Modi during the
election campaign, as it might be accused of trying to influence Indian domestic
politics. It has said in the recent past that Modi is free to apply for a visa,
like any other applicant.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             234 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 April 1, 2014

MODI EFFECT? US ENVOY PUTS IN HER PAPERS

BYLINE: OUR BUREAU

LENGTH: 350  words


New Delhi: The 66-year old Nancy J. Powell, who became the first female United
States ambassador to India in April 2012, has resigned.

The announcement came on the heels of media reports here that she may be shipped
out by the Obama Administration to "clean the state" with India.



US embassy sources did not want to hazard a guess on the decision of the career
service officer to quit her post and return home at a time when India is in an
election process and Washington is also deeply interested in its outcome.

There was media speculation a week ago that Powell would be replaced with a
political appointee as an attempt by the Obama administration to "clean the
state" with India.

The report had said Powell had dragged her heels on meeting Gujarat Chief
Minister Narendra Modi and was perceived as being "too close" to the UPA's
foreign policy establishment.

However, when Washington decided to warm up to Modi, who was being perceived as
a front runner for the PM's post, Powell did meet the Gujarat Chief Minister on
February 13, ending a nine-year-old boycott on the issue of 2002 post-Godhra
riots.

The US move marked a u-turn on its earlier stand of having nothing to do with
Modi, whose visa it cancelled in 2005 under a domestic law on the issue of
"severe violations of religious freedom". Ever since, it had refused to review
its policy.

A report from Washington said Powell has submitted her resignation to Obama and,
as planned for some time, she will retire to her home in Delaware before May
end.

Powell was last in news when she was summoned by foreign secretary Sujatha Singh
to convey India's 'shock' over the arrest of its deputy consul general Devyani
Khobragade in New York.

Later the relations between the two countries soured with Indian withdrawing the
privileges available to the US diplomats in New Delhi.

She is ending a 37-year-long career in the US Foreign Service that included
postings as U.S. Ambassador to Uganda, Ghana, Pakistan, Nepal and India as well
as service in Canada, Togo, Bangladesh, and Washington, where she was most
recently Director General of the Foreign Service.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             235 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

Is CIA torture one of our values?

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 754 words


National security adviser Stephen Hadley said, ``While we have to do what is
necessary to defend the country against terrorists and to win the war on terror,
the president has been very clear that we're going to do that in a way that is
consistent with our values'' (Page 7A, Nov. 4). President Bush has threatened to
veto legislation forbidding torture passed by 90 percent of the Senate unless it
exempts the CIA. What does this say about the current administration's values?

Rob SchneyerSanta Clara

Hire Mexicans for border wall

If the United States is going to build a wall between itself and Mexico, let's
save some money and at the same time help some of the people of Mexico by hiring
them to build it. We can call this plan ``Partners in Action.''

Johnny NietoSan Jose

France's riots could spread

Some years ago, because of a need to increase the French workforce, Muslims and
Africans were encouraged to move to France. France, as with many European
countries with socialist attitudes, would initially provide state financing
while the new visitors looked for employment. Unfortunately, France did not
develop the infrastructure for assimilating these new citizens-to-be into their
country and their economy.

Today, with France's economy in the gutter and with the youth of these newly
arrived composing most of the French unemployed, it did not take much to ignite
these masses of dispirited young individuals. It is appalling that President
Chirac of France took 11 days to speak publicly about the riots. There were
riots across France over these past 12 days and the violence could easily expand
to Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and other European countries. This could
easily be just the tip of the iceberg.

Gary AterSanta Clara

Unrest reflects anger at inequity

Perhaps the French government will continue to dismiss the riots there as the
temper tantrums of a few frustrated kids. South African whites dismissed and
imprisoned Nelson Mandela. We dismissed and jailed Rosa Parks. As more of the
world's wealth is concentrated into fewer hands, more people will find
themselves marginalized in ghettos, warehoused into giant ugly apartment
complexes and relegated to unemployment or a lousy paycheck.

I think we underestimate the anger of second-class citizens at our own peril. It
won't be nuclear bombs that destroy us, but our own refusal to acknowledge that
the diminishing resources of our planet belong to everyone and must be shared.

Maritza DahlCupertino

Baseball isn't a pressing need

In this era were the city is cutting jobs and other things related to lack of
money, how the heck can the San Jose City Council feel it is OK to spend $5.7
million plus consultant fees to hope that the Oakland A's will move here? I love
baseball, but I think there are a lot more places were we could use the money
right now.

Jack DittoFremont

San Jose deserves more attention

Does it strike anyone as odd that the British royals visited every major Bay
Area city except San Jose? Here's a suggestion for San Jose city officials:
Instead of spending energy (and money) trying to build a baseball field for a
team that has no intention of moving here, try bringing San Jose the attention
it deserves. It would be a whole lot cheaper and could even bring in a few
dollars. Our neighbors are enjoying the benefits of being part of the Bay Area,
shouldn't we?

Karen SnellSan Jose

Voters rejected monied interests

It wasn't specifically on the ballot Tuesday, but the most significant outcome
of all was the resounding no that California's voters gave to holding costly
special elections championed by special interests in an abuse of the initiative
process. With nearly $300 million spent by all sides, the end result was that
eight propositions changed nothing.

Frank SweeneySan Jose

Nation ignores health solution

The assigned topic for high school debate teams was the Wilbur plan for medical
care, and we, the team members, had to be prepared to argue either side of the
issues it raised. The year? 1936. In the United States we are still debating
those issues as we fall ever further behind many other nations that are managing
health care better, as Paul Krugman noted (Op-Ed, Nov. 8).

Having been in private medical practice for many years and also in the ward and
clinic medical care typical of university medical centers, I have believed ever
since school debates that we have it wrong in this country. Krugman is right:
``The solution -- national health care available to everyone -- is obvious.''
Will we ever learn?

A.L. EdgarCapitola

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             236 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday

Violence linked to how troops and aid are deployed

BYLINE: Barnett R. Rubin

SECTION: PE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1718 words


Last week, the United States announced a massive offensive in southern
Afghanistan called Operation Mountain Thrust. While the United States and the
Afghan government confidently predicted that this offensive would reassert
government control in southern Kandahar province, the announcement reveals that,
4 1/2 years after Washington announced the Taliban and Al-Qaida had been routed,
they are once again on the offensive in Afghanistan.

The rioting in Kabul a few weeks ago also revealed that violence is not far
below the surface even in the area of the country under the tightest control of
the government.

Americans might be surprised that, despite the presence of U.S. and NATO troops
to provide security, and despite all the aid that the world has given
Afghanistan, it is still erupting into violence. Unfortunately, the violence
erupted in part precisely because of how the troops are deployed and how the aid
has been given.

These events revealed three potentially fatal flaws in the international effort
in Afghanistan. First, Afghans increasingly resent the autonomy and impunity of
foreign forces. Second, the aid effort has not produced the benefits that
rhetoric about a ``Marshall Plan'' led Afghans to expect. And, third, the police
and administration proved unable to handle the challenge of unarmed rioters or
to control territory in many areas outside major towns.

The riots were sparked by an accident where a U.S. military vehicle whose brakes
failed killed at least one Afghan civilian in a crash. In the confusion that
followed, U.S. soldiers, Afghan police and perhaps others fired weapons; at
least 17 people were killed.

Mistaken bombings by coalition forces during operations have also killed
hundreds of civilians, mostly in southern and eastern Afghanistan.
Representatives in the Afghan parliament, as well as demonstrators in the
streets, demanded that U.S. soldiers be subject to Afghan law for any misdeeds.
The actions of omnipresent private security contractors who are far less
disciplined than the military add more fuel to the fire. Resentment of such
killings and impunity is fostering recruitment to the Taliban as well as
angering urban rioters.

While U.S. soldiers cannot be subject to the dysfunctional Afghan legal system,
and fatal mistakes are inevitable in counterinsurgency warfare, resentments are
magnified by the fact that the U.S.-led coalition is operating under
substantially the same rules as when it launched the effort to overthrow the
Taliban and destroy Al-Qaida in October 2001.

More than four years later, after the election of a president and a parliament
and the establishment of a new Afghan national army, the lack of any agreement
regarding the status of the coalition forces other than a memorandum exempting
them from the jurisdiction of Afghan law or the International Criminal Court
undermines the sovereignty of the government they have helped build.

Their failure to end the sanctuary that the Taliban enjoys in Pakistan and the
rapid growth of Taliban violence despite the coalition's actions has led Afghans
increasingly to see the U.S.-led force not only as invaders, but also as
ineffective invaders.

The Taliban often attacks soft targets, such as aid organizations. The mobs in
Kabul also attacked aid organizations, which many Afghans believe are wasteful
and corrupt. Some of the organizations attacked, such as CARE International,
deliver needed services in a cost-effective way. But even if some charges are
exaggerated or mistaken, the economic and social tensions created by the
international presence are explosive.

The rapid influx of foreign military and aid organizations created a bubble
economy in the capital. Demands for construction and supplies bankrolled local
warlords who became agents or partners for foreign contractors, including
private security companies. Hotels, restaurants, bars and brothels, especially
ubiquitous establishments advertised as ``Chinese restaurants,'' sprang up to
meet the demands of the expatriates.

Former combatants enrolled in private security companies to stand guard outside
the walled compounds where foreigners like me, earning salaries dozens if not
hundreds of times greater than those of their local counterparts, enjoy a life
that locals can see only on pirated DVDs, on the rare occasions they have
electricity.

These phenomena not only reek of injustice and offend conservative social
values, but they also outrage young men, including former combatants, who
reportedly strengthened the ranks of the rioters. Such men may not be able to
afford to marry and may see no prospects for advancement through legitimate
means. They have been dismissed from military roles that others see as predatory
but that were a source of honor to them. They feel themselves excluded from a
closed world of corruption and privilege.

If such young men take violent action, their resentment is widely shared.
Afghans said they would accept the U.S. presence if the foreigners came to help
them. The slowness of reconstruction, the obvious expenditures on the lives of
the aid providers, and the much less evident concrete benefits, have rendered
that bargain obsolete for many. Attacks on the comfortable workplaces and high
costs of aid organizations were among the most popular themes in last fall's
parliamentary elections.

The operation of the aid system has also played a role in the resurgence of the
Taliban. While bases in Pakistan, booming drug trafficking, blowback from Iraq
and support from Al-Qaida all play a role, so does the failure to deliver aid
and strengthen the government in areas deemed too insecure for foreigners.
Relying on foreign contractors and agencies rather than locally based
organizations assures that projects will not function where the Taliban is
active.

The Afghan government has asked aid donors to reduce the costs of delivery by
providing more aid through the Afghan budget so that it can be delivered by
national mechanisms and build the government's capacity. While they have
instituted some safeguards against corruption and need to do far more, they ask
donors to assume the risk of Afghan corruption, to avoid the explosive issues
generated by what Afghans see as foreign corruption.

The United States and other large aid donors have declined to follow this route.
Donors have many reasons, some valid, for continuing to provide aid through
expensive parallel structures. But the result is a system that fails to reach
the most strategic parts of the country and that generates economic distortion
and social tension that threaten all our achievements.

Finally, in the face of several hundred unarmed, though violent, rioters, the
police disappeared. The administration has also abandoned its posts with little
fighting or passively collaborated with the Taliban in parts of southern
Afghanistan. Having no equipment or training for riot control, police fled or,
in some cases, joined the rioters. They are demoralized, underpaid and riddled
with corruption.

After the riots began, the minister of the interior made no public statement.
That official, far from being a law enforcement professional, is a former
factional commander from the area north of Kabul who was appointed as part of a
political deal that President Hamid Karzai has made with the commanders of that
area to balance the power of those from the Panjsher Valley, slightly farther to
the north.

Though the events started in the morning, President Karzai did not address the
nation until 7 p.m. When he finally appeared on television, he said that he
appealed to ``my brother, Amanullah Guzar,'' a prominent commander from north of
Kabul, rather than to the minister of the interior. He subsequently made Guzar
the police chief of Kabul and appointed commanders from that area to police
leadership positions instead of the candidates recommended on the basis of merit
by a board constituted as part of the police reform effort.

The president has made a similar decision in the south. Frustrated at the
performance of the coalition and at the slow pace of building the Afghan
national army, Karzai has decided to rearm militias that were disbanded with
difficulty in the past two years. Many of the commanders are men involved with
drug trafficking and largely despised by the population for their violence and
criminality. These militias will undermine belated attempts to reform the
administration in the south and drive more villagers to seek security from the
Taliban.

The crisis in security, and the loss of faith by Karzai in Western-inspired
reform attempts, partly stems from the Bush administration's refusal to become
involved in these efforts after its initial military victory. Unlike in Iraq,
where the administration also wanted to pull out U.S. troops as soon as the
original mission was accomplished, other nations were willing to take on tasks
such as police reform, which was assigned to Germany. But these ``lead donors''
lacked resources and capacity.

As a result, reforms of police and the judiciary are lagging far behind even the
nascent army, resulting in a crisis of confidence in the international effort.

There is no sign, however, that the administration has understood the gravity of
the crisis. The errors analyzed here are only a few of the more evident parts of
our Afghanistan policy that are failing. Afghanistan's deteriorating relations
with Pakistan, a wrongheaded and under-funded counternarcotics policy, the
threat of stampeding into a confrontation with Iran, and rising ethnic tensions
all threaten this first and most vital battle in our defense against Al-Qaida
and its sympathizers.

Afghans with international assistance have laid the institutional foundations
for governance and economic recovery. With the right policies, this investment
can enable us to succeed.

If the insurgent violence and riots wake up the Bush administration from its
self-delusion that it has already achieved success in Afghanistan and force a
reappraisal of our policies, they will at least have served some purpose.

BARNETT R. RUBIN, director of studies at New York University's Center on
International Cooperation, is the author of a Council on Foreign Relations
special report, ``Afghanistan's Uncertain Transition From Turmoil to Normalcy.''
He wrote this article for Perspective.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             237 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 6, 2006 Monday

Mexico's blood-stained struggle mostly ignored by U.S. media

BYLINE: Mary Sanchez

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 613 words


Asked to name the country where a journalist was recently murdered, most people
would say Iraq. Few would guess Mexico. But Mexico is where the most recent
death, at least at this writing, has occurred.

Brad Will, a 36-year-old from New York, died with his video camera in his hands.
He essentially recorded his own death. He was shot as he covered the protests
that began in the spring in Oaxaca, Mexico.

Yes, that is right: protests now half a year in duration.

What began as an annual strike by teachers has escalated into a movement pitting
citizens against the federal police. Protesters have taken over the university
radio station, encamped by the thousands in the town square and stopped traffic
coming in and out of the city.

The conflict belies the image of all able-bodied Mexicans running for the border
-- desperate to take jobs in the United States picking vegetables, chopping
chickens and changing sheets in hotels.

A tremendous number of Mexicans are very much fighting for change in their own
country. This has always been the case. And until the country begins to resemble
more of a democracy, it will continue to be true.

The efforts are massive compared to anything that has occurred in the United
States in recent decades. For perspective, the much-cited 1963 March on
Washington had an estimated crowd of 250,000 people. In Oaxaca, crowds have been
put at nearly a million at their peak. In Mexico City this summer, the plaza
adjacent to Los Pinos (Mexico's White House) was filled with up to a million
protesters at times, and hundreds of thousands camped out for months in peaceful
protest of the outcome of the presidential election.

In Oaxaca, the demands are similar. People are demanding the resignation of the
governor of the state, believing he is corrupt and not representative of the
people. But this level of social activism is not sustained over one issue, one
candidate. Ultimately, what the people want is a deepening of democracy --
fairer elections, freer press, responsive government, public safety and jobs.

Photos in Oaxaca show people linked arm-in-arm marching through the streets.
They have used syringes to draw their own blood, making crude signs for their
protests.

Some have engaged in rock-throwing at police, but for the most part protesters
are unarmed and peaceful.

Other images spark memories of Tiananmen Square. Among the images posted online
is a photo of a protester standing in a calm faceoff with a line of police in
full riot gear. Her face barely a breath away from their plastic riot shields.

This summer, state police were sent into Oaxaca. Protesters wouldn't disband.
Last weekend, federal troops came armed with riot gear, tear gas, helicopters
and water cannons.

Journalist/activist Brad Will was known for his work with independent media.
Many suspect his killers were hired by, or at the very least supported by, the
government. A teacher and a demonstrator were also killed that day. And reports
are still unconfirmed, but most say at least six people have been killed in
Oaxaca since May. Others have simply disappeared.

Surely, there is more room in the mainstream U.S. media for coverage.

Yet this morning, the television showed unending replays of Sen. John Kerry
making thoughtless remarks about the education levels of our military. Last
week, coverage was dominated by the blond with the come-hither pose in an ad
against a black Senate candidate.

People do incredibly brave things every day in Mexico, far from the border where
so much of the U.S. media attention is focused. And sadly, even those attempting
to retell the stories sometimes die trying.

MARY SANCHEZ is an opinion-page columnist for the Kansas City Star.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             238 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                            March 13, 2013 Wednesday

Modi´s damaged goods still fit the bill for many Indians.

BYLINE: Rashmee Roshan Lall

LENGTH: 1007  words


Narendra Modi's candidacy for the prime ministry presents India with a choice:
good management without morals, or principled governance consistent with the
original secular idea of India.


analysis
Like the adulterous heroine of Nathaniel Hawthorne´s novelThe Scarlet Letter,
Narendra Modi is condemned to bear a prominent letter, but his is affixed not to
his clothing but to his image: a saffron »C« for controversy.
The chief minister of Gujarat, arguably India´s most economically »emerged«
state, aspires to higher office - that of prime minister. ¬ But he cannot even
be invited to address a seminar by a US university business forum without
stirring controversy.

the University of conducted a well-publicised protest against Mr Modi´s human
rights record, arguing that letting him speak on economic growth and development
would help »sanitise« his administration´s acts during Gujarat´s 2002 communal
riots, which left more than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, dead in one short
bloody month.The speech was cancelled; the controversy continues.It can only
become more heated, as political parties, pundits and the public considerthe
options ahead of general elections due in India by mid-2014. There is the
governing Congress Party, with its dynastic mindset and corruption-ridden
economic mismanagement. And then there is the main opposition Hindu nationalist
BJP, with its muscular vision for India, which is widely expected to chooseMr
Modi as its prime ministerial candidate. ¬ Mr Modi´s candidacy would force India
into an epic struggle between its conscience and its consumerist instincts,
between collective principles and collective aspiration. Like Buridan´s Ass, the
hungry hypothetical creature named after the French philosopher, a
fast-developing India starved of good governance will hesitate midway between
hay and water; in this case, between moral principle and monetary profit. ¬ Mr
Modi, his supporters say, offers economic competence, excellent administrative
skills and an enviably clear example of what the future might look like. They
mean Gujarat, which The Economist lyrically anointed »India´s Guangdong« in July
2011. ¬ But that´s a problem. In principle, many Indians don´t want Mr Modi´s
Gujarat to be a template for India, even though his state outstripsthe national
growth rate and has become an industrial hub that accounts for 16 per cent of
manufacturing and nearly a quarter of exports. It has offerings generally hard
for businesses to find in India - little red tape, reasonable and fair labour
laws, decent roads, constant electricity and water, and an efficient
bureaucracy. It runs an enthusiastic and effective e-governance project, so much
so that the UK´s medicinesregulator recently signed up for training. ¬ Few deny
that all of this has come to pass because of Mr Modi, an intelligent politician
and good manager, who combines bachelor rectitude with a reputation for personal
financial probity. But not everyone is convinced that Gujarat has quite the ring
for India, land of the Mahatama, in the last quarter of its first century as an
independent country. ¬ Consider this:oFor eight years now the US has by
Congressional resolution refused Mr Modi a diplomatic visa, the first and only
time such a denial has been issued on the grounds of a religious freedom
violation, under the US International Religious Freedom Act of 1998. ¬ oOn the
10th anniversary of the riots, the US Congress, which is as prone to
self-serving weasel words as any legislative body, recalled the events and
quotedBrown University professor Ashutosh Varshney, an expert on Indian riots,
to say it was »the first full-blooded pogrom in independent India«. ¬ o The US
state department, along with several Indian and international organisations, has
reported on »the role of Chief Minister Modi and his government in promoting
attitudes of racial supremacy, racial hatred, and the legacy of Nazism through
his government´s support of school textbooks in which Nazism is glorified...
[they] describe the 'charismatic personality´ of 'Hitler the Supremo´, and the
'achievements´ of Nazism at great length.« ¬ oWhen Mr Modi visitedLondon a few
months after the riots, I asked him if Gujarat´simage overseas was affected by
international criticism, but he was dismissive. He compared the Gujarat carnage
to the post-September 11 US retaliation and Delhi´s anti-Sikh riots after Prime
Minister Indira Gandhi´s assassination by her Sikh bodyguards. »No one has asked
this question to the USA after 9/11. Delhi is developing fast - no one has asked
this question to Delhi after 1984. If it does not matter to Delhi and USA, why
should it matter to Gujarat?« ¬ o Last but not least, Markandey Katju, a retired
Supreme Court judge and current chairman of the Press Council of India, recently
called for Indians to recognise that glossing over the killing of Muslims was
reminiscent of Kristallnacht, the 1938 Night of Broken Glass in Nazi Germany,
when state paramilitaries helped to attack Jewish properties and people.If that
sounds extreme, it is at least worth noting that this is the context in which Mr
Modi is condemned to wear controversy like an albatross around his neck,
regardless of hiseconomic management and governance of Gujarat.The controversy
still roils. ¬ »Right now, Modi has the tailwind aiding his rise,« wrote the
columnist R Jagannathan.»The Indian electorate has changed. It is no longer
taken in by mere political posturing. It is demanding governance, and is now
willing to give those who deliver a longer stint in power, never mind what the
media thinks about them.« ¬ Mr Modi as candidate for prime minister appears to
present India with a choice between good management without morals and
principled governance consistent with the original secular idea of India. It
would be the choice between base gratification of the needs of today and the
partially realised aspirations for tomorrow.Rashmee Roshan Lall, the former
editor ofThe Sunday Times of India, is now a freelance writer

On Twitter:@rashmeerl

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             239 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Turan Information Agency

                            October 15, 2013 Tuesday

Safar Abiyev about the negative role of the OSCE

LENGTH: 218  words


Baku/14.10.13/Turan : Defense Minister Safar Abiyev met today with U.S.
Ambassador to Azerbaijan Richard Morningstar.

According to the press service of the Defense Ministry, they discussed bilateral
relations. Abiyev said that amendment 907 plays an inhibiting role and its
initiators still "hold Azerbaijan at gunpoint."

Next Abiyev informed the Ambassador about the democratic presidential election
on October 9 and on the negative and biased role of the OSCE ODIHR.

He also called biased evaluation by the U.S. State Department about the
elections and expressed concern about this.

Continuing his argument, Abiyev remembered elections in Armenia in 2008, where
despite the riots, the United States and the OSCE gave a positive opinion, and
no pressure on the leadership of Armenia was exerted.

According to the press service of the Defense Ministry, Morningstar agreed with
all of this, noting the need to revise Section 907 of the Act of Congress of
freedom.

Referring to past elections in Azerbaijan, the ambassador said that the election
is over, and Ilham Aliyev is the winner. As for sounding criticism, it will not
affect the election results.

It should be noted that the U.S. Embassy did not issue a press release about
this meeting and did not comment on the information from the Ministry of
Defense. -02D-

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1362


                        Copyright 2013 Turan News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             240 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

USPTO grants trade mark "AMERICAN RIOT" to MOORE & BODE CIGARS, INC. (FLORIDA)

LENGTH: 41  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


MOORE & BODE CIGARS, INC. (FLORIDA), has been granted trademark (4671563) titled
as "AMERICAN RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 034. US 002 008 009 017. G & S: Cigars. FIRST USE: 20140405.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             241 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             August 12, 2011 Friday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

VIOLENCE IS REPUDIATION OF POLICIES

SECTION: NATIONAL; YOUR LETTERS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1035 words


England riots

It breaks my heart to see the violence and riots in London, but it does not
surprise me. I was born and raised in the heart of London right after World War
II and have always loved the city and its people. It does not surprise me
because, as in the United States, the country's government has abandoned
policies adopted after the war that were directly and purposely antithetical to
the fascist philosophies against which the country had just fought.

As a working-class kid, I and my family benefited directly from being raised in
London in those times. I received an excellent public education, a national
health care system that assured my continued well-being even during periods of
scarcity and suffering after the war, and a happy, enriched childhood amid the
abundant cultural, architectural and historical offerings of the city that were
equally accessible to everyone. That foundation fortified me with a lifelong
capacity to make a living, endowed me with talents that make life fulfilling and
enjoyable, and allowed me to contribute back to society.

Then came the '80s, a time when the governments of Europe and America began to
be taken over by the will of the wealthy and their rapidly developing super-rich
multinational companies, who apparently decided they had had enough of this
democracy thing. They so-called upper classes were always more comfortable with
a societal model in which they were the ruling class, casting just enough crumbs
to the working people for them to maintain sufficient strength to do the dirty
work and to propagate, so there was an eternal source of cheap labor.

The riots in London are a sign of the inevitable repudiation of that model. The
ruling classes should take note all over the world. The world has seen the
revolutions of peasants who had nothing but were starved into desperation, and
they were bloody enough. The world has yet to see the revolutions of those who
had something once and then had it taken from them.

Gail Morris, St. Petersburg

* * *

Sinkhole insurance

Sinking the economy

I have a unique perspective on the giant proposed rate hikes for sinkhole
insurance coverage. I am in a contract to buy a home in the Tampa area. However,
the expected $300 per month increase in sinkhole coverage would disqualify me.

What is frustrating is that nobody can tell me if this town house will require
coverage. I would just skip the coverage if it were not required. But since
there is no sinkhole zone map like there is for flood zones, I don't know. Both
the lender I am using and the insurance company (Citizens) have said that they
don't know - yet.

I cannot afford to take the chance of buying a home and finding out on Jan. 1
that my house payments have increased by $300. So I am backing out of my offer
on the property and will continue to rent.

I would have needed the services of: a Realtor; title company; lender; moving
company; carpet store and installer; paint store and painter; furniture store;
landscaper; and the people they employ. But they won't get my business. And we
wonder why our economy is not improving?

Jim Mullen, Tampa

* * *

Jobs

Outsourcing is the problem

Many people are upset about the budget debate in Congress, but what did they
expect? Over 200 members of Congress made a pledge, not to the people but to a
lobbyist, not to raise taxes.

Now perhaps Congress will do something about the basic cancer in our economy:
the outsourcing to Asia of American jobs. This is the root cause of the
recession, and unless it is resolved our country will sink deeper into economic
slump.

To resolve this there must be major changes in our tax laws to reward companies
that bring jobs back and to penalize those that outsource. Congress should also
impose punitive tariffs on goods from countries with artificially low
currencies.

In 1980 we had over 19 million manufacturing jobs; today it's less than 12
million, while our population has increased by over 80 million people.

Bob Anderson, Largo

* * *

Who will pay? - Aug. 10, commentary

Too much of a bad thing

Editorialist after editorialist in your paper intone the liberal mantra that
more government spending is needed to stimulate and lift the flagging economy.
The Bush and Obama years saw a veritable exponential explosion of government
spending. By the liberal formula of government spending equating to economic
strength, the economy should now be juiced to the hilt, soaring to new heights
every day. Yet the economy still limps along in the doldrums.

In the face of the manifest disconnect between spending-equals-growth theory and
present economic reality, all liberals can do is say we're not spending enough
and should spend more. Could it possibly be that the liberal formulation of
government spending translating to economic health is way too simplistic and
does not reflect reality? Could there even be a negative correlation between
government spending (and high taxes) and economic strength?

Robert Beatty, Tampa

* * *

The little guy will pay

"Who will pay?" asks this column. If the tea party has its way, and if our local
representatives continue to cave to tea party demands, the Wall Street types and
bankers who flooded the market with bogus mortgage bonds will keep their
ill-gotten gains, thanks to the Republicans' extension of the Bush-era tax cuts.
The rest of us will pay their share of the deficit.

Stephen Phillips, St. Petersburg

* * *

Somali famine

Home needs help first

How could President Barack Obama approve $105 million for humanitarian efforts
in Somalia?

Supposedly we have a huge deficit and American benefits must be cut. Where is
$105 million coming from to help others above those citizens who elect the
president?

There is no doubt Somalia is in desperate need of help. However, help should
come from all nations, not just the United States, and from private individuals
who can afford to contribute.

No help should be given until the help offered is assured it will reach the
people in need and not be held up by militants or corrupt leaders.

I don't mean to appear heartless and selfish, but attention should be focused on
our own problems first. November 2012 is coming. Ignoring citizens' problems is
not a good way to win an election.

Lois D. Hawkins, Dunedin

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             242 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Taliban blame US economy, London riots on Afghan war

BYLINE:  RECORDER REPORT

SECTION: Vol. XLVII No. 227

LENGTH: 345  words


The Taliban blamed the state of the US economy and last week's London riots on
the war in Afghanistan in a statement published on its website Monday. The
insurgents claimed both situations were linked to the US and Britain spending
hundreds of billions of dollars on the ten-year war in Afghanistan and again
urged foreign troops to pull out of the country.

The Taliban are known to exaggerate and distort their public statements as part
of a propaganda campaign accompanying a bloody armed insurgency. "With no doubt,
the immense and basic reason of the financial crises, deprivation and riots that
United States and UK are facing now is because of the offensive and
imperialistic policies and designs of these countries," a statement published on
the Taliban's website said.

"They are proceeding the baseless and unjustified war by the expenses of their
own people's taxes and they have turned their faces from the problems of their
masses." The statement repeated the Taliban's call for all foreign troops to
leave Afghanistan and warned that if they did not, the US's financial troubles
would "push you to the hollow of destruction like the Soviet Union."

The Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989, ten years after invading, in a
move often linked by historians to the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Earlier this month, the US had its credit rating downgraded by Standard & Poor's
from AAA to AA+ for the first time ever amid ballooning debt.

In Britain, there were four nights of unrest on the streets of London and other
cities last week. The United States and Britain are the two largest troop
contributing nations to the Afghanistan war, with around 100,000 and 9,500
respectively. The Taliban's most recent large-scale attack in Afghanistan Sunday
killed 22 people as militants attacked the compound of the governor of Parwan
province, just north of Kabul. Earlier this month, the militants also said they
had shot down a US helicopter in central Afghanistan, killing 38 troops in the
biggest single incident loss of life for foreign forces of the whole war.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                             243 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                             October 3, 2011 Monday

Pakistan always told US unilateral actions were unacceptable: Gilani

SECTION: Vol. III No. 272

LENGTH: 642  words


Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani on Monday said the government had always
reacted to the negative messages of United States (US) and after the May 2
incident he told Secretary of State Hillary Clinton that unilateral actions like
Abbottabad were unacceptable. Responding to various points raised by Leader of
the Opposition Chaudhary Nisar Ali Khan, the Prime Minister told the National
Assembly that he had warned the US in 2009 that electricity shortage in Pakistan
could result in riots and if they (US) wanted friendship with the latter they
should help resolve its energy issue.

Prime Minister Gilani said that Pakistan was in more of a need of civil nuclear
technology deal, while the US signed the agreement with India. He said he could
have summoned a joint sitting of Parliament on the issue but he opted to call an
all parties conference so that the participation of political parties, who had
boycotted the previous polls, could be ensured on this important matter. The
Prime Minister said if some political parties were neglected in the APC that
could be an error.

"We had invited political parties from Balochistan but some of them excused from
participation while some of them told us that they were morally with us," he
said. Appreciating the role of political parties, the Prime Minister said that
the unanimous resolution of all parties conference sent a good message to the
world that the Pakistani nation was united on integrity and national issues of
the country. He said the implementation of the resolutions of Parliament would
be ensured. A parliamentary committee has been constituted to monitor the
implementation of these resolutions, he added. He said the Parliament was
supreme and the army could not play the role assigned for the political parties.

The Parliament has made policies and will be making the same, he stressed. He
said that instructions have been issued to resolve the issue of circular debt,
which is causing electricity shortages. An inter-ministerial committee headed by
Finance Minister has held numerous meetings to resolve the issue of payments to
various departments and the provincial governments will also be consulted to
find a solution. The inter-ministerial committee will present its
recommendations to the federal cabinet soon, he added.

About the law and order situation of Karachi, the Prime Minister said he chaired
a provincial cabinet meeting in the Sindh capital. It was the mandate of
provincial government to maintain the law and order and he had directed that an
across the board action should be taken against criminals without consideration
of party affiliations, he added. Karachi is peaceful now because of the
government actions without any discrimination, he said. The Prime Minister said
Karachi was extremely important as it was the economic hub and without economic
stability there could not be political stability.

Gilani said he visited the flood hit districts in Sindh province and directed
all the government representatives to provide relief to the affected people. He
said after the damage need assessment the rehabilitation of affected people
would be started. The Prime Minister assured the House that the next elections
would be held in a free and fair manner as the Pakistan People's Party did not
desire to come into power from the back door.

The government is extending full support to the Public Accounts Committee of the
National Assembly, he added. About the restructuring of public sector
organizations, he said eight organizations, including the Pakistan International
Airlines and Pakistan Steel Mills had been identified and report in that regard
would also be placed before the parliament. The Prime Minister said the
politicians should correct their perception about corruption as various
democratic governments were removed in the past on such charges.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                             244 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday

I had told US about energy crisis and its effects: Prime Minister

BYLINE:  ZULFIQAR AHMAD

SECTION: Vol. XLVII No. 274

LENGTH: 407  words


Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani Monday said he had made it crystal clear
to the US that any May 2-like unilateral strike inside Pakistan would not be in
the best interest of both the countries. Speaking in National Assembly, he said
that during US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's visit to Pakistan, he told
her categorically that any unilateral strike inside Pakistan would seriously
damage Pakistan-US relations and convey a negative message to the nation at
large.

He said that when US and India were moving towards a nuclear deal in 2009, his
government told the US that it was Pakistan which actually needed such deal to
overcome its energy crisis but the US preferred to ink that deal with India. He
said whatever he was saying was on record, which had also been confirmed by the
WikiLeaks. However, Pakistan still fully co-operated with the US as its ally in
war against terror.

"We warned the US in 2009 that electricity crisis in Pakistan could result in
riots and if they [US] wanted friendship with us, they must step up efforts to
resolve our energy shortages by giving civil nuclear reactors to Pakistan as the
US gave to India," he added.

Responding to a question raised by opposition leader Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan
that the government should have called a joint-session of parliament instead of
an All-Parties Conference (APC), Gilani said he opted to hold an APC to give a
chance to those political parties that had boycotted the 2008 elections.

About absence of nationalist parties of Balochistan, he said that they were
invited to participate in APC, but some of them outrightly refused while some
preferred to stay away due to reasons best known to them alone. About a very
high incidence of corruption in the country, Gilani termed it a wrong perception
about politicians. He said the "blame-game" must stop, as it was not only
Pakistan People's Party (PPP) often accused of corruption. According to him, the
governments of Nawaz Sharif were dismissed on corruption charges. Opposition
leader in National Assembly Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said that none of Nawaz
Sharif governments was dismissed on charges of corruption.

"I would like to make it clear that both the tenures of Nawaz Sharif were never
sacked on the basis of corruption. It was tension with the then president Ghulam
Ishaq Khan that intensified over a period of time and Nawaz Sharif deemed that
he must resign in the national interest," he maintained.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


                             245 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     The Tico Times (San Jose, Costa Rica)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

EDITORIAL: Costa Rica condemns deplorable acts of terrorism

BYLINE: The Tico Times, San Jose, Costa Rica

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 670 words


Sept. 13--ON TUESDAY NIGHT -- Sept. 11 -- a mob in the northeastern Libyan
seaport Benghazi killed four U.S. diplomats including ambassador Chris Stevens.

The attacks came after a disparaging video produced in the United States
criticizing the Prophet Muhammad received widespread attention throughout the
Arab world. Riots outside U.S. embassies spread to Egypt and Yemen, and later
were reported in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Jordan.

U.S. President Barack Obama condemned "in the strongest terms this outrageous
and shocking attack" in Libya. Already the Libyan government claims to have
arrested four people involved in the murders.

Costa Rica also denounced the attacks in no uncertain terms and expressed
solidarity with the U.S.

The tragedy highlights problems of a country transitioning from a military-ruled
dictatorship to a democracy.

It's not easy, and catastrophes such as the embassy attack are not unexpected,
especially when prompted by a horribly offensive video that depicts the Islamic
prophet as a pedophile.

Then, in the next step of the equation, terrorists (Al Qaeda is now believed to
have orchestrated the sophisticated attack on the anniversary of 9/11) exploit
mob fervor for their own violent gains.

But there is another intriguing aspect of what happened in Libya: The video is
also part of the problem. Nobody can justify the attacks on the embassy, but the
film is monstrous. The filmmaker, a Coptic Christian living (and in hiding) in
California, freely admits the purpose of the video was to incite controversies
and riots.

U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton best summed up this sentiment, citing
the "disgusting and reprehensible" nature of both the video and the attacks.

People come out of the woodwork and paint Muslims as bloodthirsty villains. They
forget the man who killed dozens of kids in Norway was influenced by right-wing
Christian beliefs. Just like they refuse to accept that attacks committed on the
embassy do not represent all Muslim people, and were instigated by extremists.

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney tried to politicize the situation.
The U.S. Embassy in Egypt criticized the content of the video six hours before
the mobs started. However, Romney called the embassy statement "akin to an
apology." He also used the attacks to justify strengthening U.S. military
presence in the world -- which seems to be opposite of letting countries
establish their own democratic institutions. He spoke with violent rhetoric at a
time when U.S. diplomats in the Middle East faced immediate threats of violence.

That brings us to Costa Rica's response. The government's statement highlights
how fortunate we are to be in a country that cherishes and strives for democracy
and social development (see Perspective below).

For years, Costa Rica cultivated democracy after disbanding its army, despite
civil wars throughout the rest of Central America. Today, Costa Rica keeps the
calm despite an encroaching drug war. People of all religions and races live
here -- in a Christian state -- and respect the rights of protest and freedom of
expression.

This was only the fifth time a U.S. ambassador has been killed by an act of
terror. The first occurred in this region. In Guatemala, in 1968, members of the
Rebel Armed Forces ambushed a car driving U.S. Ambassador Gordon Mein. The
ambassador tried to escape, but was gunned down.

Guatemala, like Nicaragua and El Salvador, endured decades of bloody civil wars.
Costa Rica has persevered -- not perfectly -- but respectfully.

On this Independence Day, it's important to remember the stable democracy that
so many Ticos have worked hard to establish.

We condemn these terrible attacks in Libya, and hope the killers are brought to
justice. We also hope for the future of Libya's democracy. We hope that one day
they too can celebrate a true independence -- one free of extremism and hate.

___ (c)2012 The Tico Times (San José, CRI) Visit The Tico Times (San José, CRI)
at www.ticotimes.net Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120913-1TT-EDITORIAL-Costa-Rica-condemns-deplorable-acts-of-terrorism-0913-201
20913

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1TT


                         Copyright 2012 The Tico Times


                             246 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                              July 22, 2013 Monday

Rajnath urges US to lift ban on Modi; Congress mocks 'in Hindi or English'

LENGTH: 315 words

DATELINE: India


India, July 22 -- The BJP, which has often claimed that it is not bothered by
America's travel ban on Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi since the 2002
Gujarat riots, will now ask the US to reconsider its decision to bar the man
who's leading the party's 2014 campaign.

BJP president Rajnath Singh, who is on a five-day US visit, told: "We will
request the US government to clear Narendra Modi's visa."

The BJP had earlier maintained that the US ban did not matter, hitting out at
Washington for denying entry to a democratically elected leader. But the party
seems to have changed its stance with Mr Modi leading its 2014 campaign and
being seen as a frontrunner for its prime ministerial candidate.

The US first denied Mr Modi a visa in 2005, over allegations that his government
did nothing to stop the 2002 riots. The US has since maintained that there is
"no change in its policy", even after the United Kingdom and the European Union
ended their boycott recently.

Mr Modi, who has often been invited by Indian-American groups to events in
America, resorted to video-conferencing in May to reach out to his audience in
18 US cities.

The Congress reacted with a jibe at Mr Rajnath Singh's controversial remarks
that "the English language has resulted in a loss of language and culture in
India."

"First the BJP president must clarify what language will he speak in - Hindi or
English?" quipped Union Minister Manish Tewari today.

Mr Singh also clarified in the US that his remarks had been misunderstood. "I
meant that Hindi and other regional languages should be used to teach Indian
culture and heritage to students. I have no anti-english or pro-english agenda,
no prejudice to any language."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             247 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                            November 23, 2014 Sunday

Welcome Mr. Obama

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: India


India, Nov. 23 -- After Eisenhower, Nixon, Carter, Clinton and Bush, Barack
Obama becomes the sixth US President to visit India. Of course, he will be the
first US President to be the chief guest in our Republic Day parade. As far as
Republic Day parade is concerned, presidents/ top leaders of USSR/ Russia,
Presidents of France, PMs of UK and Japan besides many other important nations
have been the chief guests. Obama will be the first United States president to
be the guest of honour on the occasion, in a move that signals India-US ties are
moving in the right direction following Modi's visit to Washington last month.
This will be Obama's second visit to India, also a record of sorts as no US
president has been to India twice while in office. His first was in November
2010, during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government's tenure, at the
invitation of then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. He had addressed a joint
session of parliament.

Modi, as the Gujarat chief minister was denied by the US an official visa in
2005, and was deprived of his tourist-business visa in the aftermath of the 2002
riots. However, the US signaled a thaw in ties in the run-up to the 2014 Lok
Sabha elections, in which Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) secured a
landslide victory. President Obama did call to congratulate Modi - though he was
not the first, other world leaders beat him to it - and invited him to the White
House. Irrespective of the individual personalities of US Presidents and Indian
Prime Ministers, both the oldest and the largest democracies of the world would
serve humanity better by working together. The excavating friendship is not
merely a sign of good consensual vibes; it shows the healthy respect that India
is gaining as a vibrantly functioning democracy in the developing world. This
friendship indirectly fosters belief in democratic values, and human rights
across the world.

Obama's visit on Republic Day will have some positive impact on India-Pakistan
border relations in regard to Jammu & Kashmir issues. The participation of Obama
at the coming Republic Day celebrations will send a strong signal to China also,
his presence in India will give appropriate messages to all neighbouring
countries, which are probable threat to our country. This will also indicate a
major shift in our policy of bureaucratic decision giving way to Political
decision making of foreign policy of India. On the other hand, US too needs a
strong country like India to sacrifice at the altar of Taliban and ISIS to save
their head. The benefit of such involvement will definitely go to China and
Pakistan.

US is a great nation, and home for many countries' citizens. US, however, is
also too much materialistic while dealing with rest of the world, and economic
benefits seem to outweigh morality. Narendra Modi is in resonance with the
capitalists in US, EU and India, but he is still not walking the talk with
regards to cleaning up governance and politics that are lot more difficult to
achieve and should be the top priority.

Obama should do what Richard Nixon did to China. He should come with a gift of
permanent seat for India in UNSC with full veto power. If needed, he should let
France or UK vacate their seat for India. India is the largest democracy in the
world, and one of the oldest civilisations. India needs a full-fledged
recognition and support, not token and symbolic gestures. Narendra Modi should
come out clean as US always looked away when great leaders like Nehru and Indira
Gandhi were at the helm.

US and India both are secular and strongly promote secular values and respect
for all faiths worldwide. The US also separates religion from state by law and
constitution at home. "Secularists" as you call them is what Modi goes for too.
If Modi says anything in public or on the international stage against secularism
and calls for "Hindu Rashtra" then he will end up as unrealistic and make our
country look primitive and backward. All his international outreach will be
rebuffed and all his diplomatic gains will be lost. Whatever, but this is a
great moment where two great leaders, representing the largest section of
democratic world, with a fervor to eliminate the miseries of billions of people
on this planet, can change the destiny of a destitute humanity. Humble
backgrounds of both of them make them people's darlings. One controls the
strongest military power on the earth - the other a staunch follower of saints
and philosophers who proliferated the might of Peace and Spirituality. One
controls the biggest economic might - the other a humungous work force. Great
things can happen if these two powerful forces join together.

Welcome Dear Obama, once again in India.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             248 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                              July 4, 2016 Monday

Al-Qaeda calls for lone wolf attacks in India, ask to target IAS, IPS

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: India


India, July 4 -- Just two days after a deadly terrorist attack at a popular
Dhaka cafe killed 20 people, Al-Qaeda has asked Indians to carry out lone-wolf
terror attacks in the country.

According to a report, the head of Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS)
Asim Umar, issued a statement "inciting Indian Muslims to rise up and to follow
the example of lone-wolves in Europe and kill administrative and police officers
in India".

The report has been published by the US-based SITE intelligence groups which
tracks terror networks across the world.

Al-Qaeda chief Ayman Al-Zawahiri announced the creation of al-Qaeda in the
Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) about two years ago. Its leader Asim Umar is from
India.

In his statement, Umar asserted that Indian states and their departments were
equally responsible for incidents targeting Muslims in India.

"Otherwise how could anyone dare to just take knives and cut Muslims like
vegetables? We say if the Indian state is not involved in the massacre of
Muslims, then Muslim youth should also be given free hand, as given to Hindu
mobsters during riots," the US-based SITE intelligence group said in its
statement quoting Umar.

Provoking Indian Muslims to start jihad in the country, Umar said, "Kill senior
officers of institutions and administrative departments that get (people to)
start these riots. Target IPS and IAS officers, cause them financial losses."

According to counter-terror officials, Umar, whose original name is Sanaul Haq,
is from Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh.

Taking note of the statement, National Investigation Agency chief Sharad Kumar
said, "We will analyse the statement."

The US state department designated AQIS a 'foreign terrorist organisation' and
Umar a 'global terrorist' only a few days ago.

The development comes barely days after seven suspected ISIS militants
slaughtered 20 civilians, including an Indian woman, inside the Hooley Artisan
bakery situated in Dhaka's high-security diplomatic zone.

Incidentally, dreaded terror group ISIS is also reportedly planning to launch
attacks in India through its bases in Bangladesh and Pakistan.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             249 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            January 25, 2011 Tuesday

Doha stance went against Nath: Cong

BYLINE: Anil Sharma

LENGTH: 90  words


The Congress sees a link between Union minister Kamal Nath's aggressive
anti-America stand in Doha talks and the surfacing of case related to the
anti-Sikh riots.

"This is the only connection that comes to my mind," Congress spokesperson
Manish Tewari said, adding he would comment after proper scrutiny of documents.

A New York-based NGO Sikhs for Justice has filed a lawsuit against him for his
alleged involvement in the anti-Sikh riots.

The US state department has reportedly not decided on the question of diplomatic
immunity for the minister.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             250 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            National Herald Tribune

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday

Modi's anti-Muslim past overshadows future hopes

BYLINE:  ANNIE GOWEN AND RAMA LAKSHMI

LENGTH: 605  words


INDIA'S MAIN OPPOSITION party on Friday chose controversial Hindu nationalist
Narendra Modi as its prime ministerial candidate in parliamentary elections set
for next year.

The choice of Modi, chief minister of the western state of Gujarat, was long
expected but opposed by many even within his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
Several weeks of internal wrangling preceded Friday's ceremonial announcement,
at which the candidate was cheered and adorned with a garland of roses and
jasmine.

Modi, 62, has won praise for turning Gujarat into an economic powerhouse and a
magnet for foreign investment, but he comes with serious baggage, as many allege
he did little to stop riots in his state in 2002 when hundreds of Muslims were
killed.

For that reason, his official anointment Friday presents a fresh quandary for
the United States, which denied him a visa in 2005 on the grounds that he had
violated religious freedom during the riots. U.S. officials have long said that
Modi has not reapplied for a visa, so there is nothing to discuss.

"If Mr. Modi wants to apply for a visa and await a review like any other
applicant, he is welcome to do so," Marie Harf, a State Department deputy
spokeswoman, said Friday.

Yet his past remains a source of deep controversy in the United States - an
invitation for Modi to address the Wharton School's annual India forum via Skype
earlier this year, for example, sparked such a furor among rights activists and
others that the school rescinded it. A senior BJP leader, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to comment on the issue,
said the visa question could aid Modi in the long run.

"This is the world's largest democracy. In what way will you justify denying him
a visa or having a keep-off attitude? They will have to explain themselves," he
said. "The more the U.S. keeps saying, 'Let him apply, we will evaluate it,' the
more it will benefit Modi here. He will make political capital out of this issue
in the campaign."

Although the official nomination came Friday, Modi has been acting like his
party's chief candidate for months. He delivered a rival address on India's
Independence Day in August, around the time Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, the
quiet economist, gave his traditional address from Delhi's historic Red Fort. He
also launched the BJP's national campaign tour last month.

Friday's announcement effectively marks the official beginning of election
season in India, although voters are not expected to head to the polls until
April or May. Modi will lead the BJP against the governing Congress party, which
has been mired in corruption scandals and charges of ineffectual governance. Its
leader-in-waiting, Rahul Gandhi - the grandson of former prime minister Indira
Gandhi - has said he isn't even sure he wants the job.

During Friday's announcement, Modi, wearing a limegreen high-collared jacket,
sat quietly during introductions by party president Rajnath Singh. When it came
time for him to speak, he referred to his modest beginnings. He was the son of
grocers and ran a family tea stall as a teenager. "Today the party has given a
worker who hails from a small town and a modest family the responsibility to do
a very important task," Modi said.

"I would like to appeal to the people to please give us the strength to get the
country out of this crisis." Modi later met with L.K. Advani, a party patriarch
who has withheld his blessing because, in part, he fears Modi's past is too
great a barrier to the party's chances of establishing a successful coalition
government next year. A BJP-led coalition last governed India from 1999 to 2004.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 National Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             251 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                             June 25, 2016 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Man sentenced for actions during riots

BYLINE: Jessica Anderson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 673  words



HIGHLIGHT: Donta Betts pours lighter fluid on propane canisters during rioting
in April 2015, in a photo released by the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives.


A 20-year-old man who was seen in widely circulated photos squirting lighter
fluid on a pile of propane cylinders during the rioting in Baltimore in April
2015 was sentenced Friday to 15 years in prison.

Donta Betts of Baltimore pleaded guilty in March to making a destructive device
near the intersection of Pennsylvania and North avenues on April 27, 2015. He
also pleaded guilty to shooting a woman in the leg over a $20 drug deal on July
2, 2015, federal prosecutors said in court Friday.

"Donta Betts engaged in arson, looting, assault and other mayhem during the
Baltimore riots," U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein said in a statement. He said
Betts' actions around the city during the riots included looting and throwing
rocks at police officers.

In an email, Rosenstein said the case was not just about what happened during
the riots, but also about the increase in violence across the city last year.

"This man was an armed drug dealer, and because he was carrying a gun, he used
it to try to kill a woman over a $20 drug debt," Rosenstein said. "Too many of
the 344 murders and 700 nonfatal shootings last year were over similar pointless
beefs. That is what happens when criminals are allowed to carry loaded guns."

During Friday's hearing, prosecutor Matthew Maddox argued that Betts should
receive a 16-year sentence, two years longer than guidelines suggest, because
Betts "wasn't an average rioter."

Maddox described Betts as having "sheer hate and contempt" for police officers,
and said he was engaging in the riots for the sake of lawlessness.

According to the criminal complaint, Betts told investigators, "I figured I did
all this because that was my period of time to go wild on the police."

Betts was "an example of what he wanted other rioters to be," Maddox said.

He argued that Betts should face a longer sentence to send a message that such
disregard for police will not be tolerated.

Betts' attorney, Shari Heather Silver, asked the judge to consider Betts' youth
and his "cognitive limitations." She described her client as a "scared,
remorseful individual" who is functionally on the same level as a child. Silver
said she has noticed an emotional decline in Betts since working with him and at
times has seen him fighting back tears.

Silver also noted that Betts was one of thousands of young people who
participated in the rioting.

"He cannot be held responsible for everyone else's conduct," she said.

Betts is the fifth person federal prosecutors have charged with arson during the
riots, which occurred just hours after the funeral for Freddie Gray, a
25-year-old from West Baltimore who died of a severe spinal cord injury
sustained in police custody.

Appearing in federal court wearing red scrubs, Betts told the judge, "I'm very
sorry for my bad decision making." He also apologized to the people he might
have hurt that day.

During the hearing, two Baltimore and two Montgomery County police officers
described the fear they felt responding to the riots.

Lt. Peter Davidov of the Montgomery County Special Events Response Team said his
unit was sent to Pennsylvania and North avenues, which became a center for the
riots. They were asked to stop looters at the CVS and other stores, but he said
they had to wait because of the incendiary devices that were being used.

Davidov and other officers waited until the device Betts created exploded, he
said, adding that they had gear to protect them from flying rocks but not from
an explosion.

"His actions had a significant impact on us," he said. "I personally felt very
vulnerable."

Baltimore police Lt. Chris O'Ree also was among the officers in a line near the
CVS who waited until after the explosion to begin trying to control the
situation.

"It was absolutely a terrifying scene," he said.

Prosecutors said that two months later, Betts shot a woman who previously had
purchased heroin from him, for which he expected $40 but only received $20.
Betts shot the woman in the leg while she was seated in a vehicle with another
person.

jkanderson@baltsun.com

twitter.com/janders5

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             252 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

Cameron drives the burning bus

LENGTH: 812 words


WASHINGTON

The images that filled our television screens this month of the rioting that
began in London and quickly spread to a dozen cities in Britain are fading. Even
more quickly, we forget the reports of conservative and socialist politicians in
the British Parliament making sententious and pompous statements in which the
words "justice," "emergency," "disruptive" and "never happen again" were
featured.

The words "failure of Britain's open immigration policies" were not uttered.
Equally, the police were lauded as heroes, while their bosses were trashed. And
the enduring impression promoted was of groups of police running after handfuls
of kids.

The trigger mechanism for the national riots was the killing of Mark Duggan, 29,
a father of three, in an impoverished section of London. Duggan was a member of
some black criminal gangs and it was alleged he had shot at a police officer. A
memorial gathering of his neighbors turned into a protest march. Windows were
broken and the looting began.

On the second day of the rioting, tests were published that showed the bullet
allegedly fired by Duggan was credibly a misfire from a police weapon. At one
time this would have been the excuse for mass class and race warfare -- an
unleashing of all the unhappiness, fear and tension roiling under the surface of
Britain's day-to-day survival. This was not to be, despite the mistakes made by
the government.

In shock and horror, Prime Minister David Cameron's response in Parliament was
to make precisely the same error as the Middle Eastern potentates, victims of
the Arab Spring, made in dealing with their oppressed populations. He added fuel
to the fire and should have earned censure from the "civilized" Western
democracies for his actions.

First, he suggested that the government would look into ways of disrupting
social media, which could have been used to facilitate criminal behavior. His
massive errors continued with a call for wider curfew powers including the use
of "gang injunctions" to restrict an individual's movements.

With the opening of the Olympic Games in London a year away, the prime minister
appeared to be ready to jettison all concerns for civil liberties to prove he
could impose a harsh security on all locations and keep the unruly locals well
apart from the visitors.

But David Cameron was mostly reflecting the general mood of most British
citizens over the age of 30. That those convicted of looting would be jailed is
reasonable, evicted from state-subsidized housing, unreasonable. That city
planners should redesign buildings to include protective shutters is extreme, as
would be the arrest of anyone seen on one of the thousands of crime-prevention
cameras wearing a hooded jacket that could be used as a mask.

Trained observers of urban riots believe that the main reason things ran out of
control in Britain was because the police reacted to them as a "public order
challenge" rather than as criminal activities such as burglary, arson and
assault.

Clearly, without the practice provided in the United States by Mara Salvatrucha
13, the police are not yet inured to gangs of youngsters willing to use extreme
force -- such as murder and torture -- to get what they want.

Instead, they are still working on the premises of the 1960s, that the kids
before them are related to voters and donors who must be kept happy.

Suddenly there was an awareness in Britain that criminal gangs roamed the cities
and suburbs and were controlled by what had been treated dismissively until this
month as "a bunch of colored kids."

These kids grew up in the war zones of Africa, the Caribbean and Asia. They not
only learned rioting in childhood but had strategies to profit from rioting.

In every city where a riot triggered looting, small groups of between six and 10
would descend on an electronics store, a jewelry outlet, clothing store or dress
shop. Not just any, mind you -- they targeted high-end stores. Each member of
the gang would select what they could carry, dash to the car and unload. Once
the car was full it would take off and be replaced by another stolen vehicle.

The change needed in Britain is the same that should be high on our lists in the
United States. It is not about policing or poverty but about culture. Most of
those arrested were from an underclass, bombarded by advertisements and
television. They know what to own but afford it they cannot.

This is not an excuse but a fact. When he was running for office, David Cameron
knew this and had plans for integrating a marginalized underclass into a middle
class where this kind of anti-social behavior, vandalism, looting and shooting
are neither acceptable nor necessary.

Now that he has fallen victim to his own draconian gimmicks, we might never see
any real change.

Dateline D.C. is written by a Washington-based British journalist and political
observer.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             253 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 11, 2001 Monday Five Star Lift Edition

BUSH'S MAIN TASK DURING TRIP IS KEEPING EUROPE IN LINE ;
 POWER SHIFT IN SENATE HASN'T HELPED HIM OVERSEAS, EXPERTS SAY;
 RIFT ON KEY ISSUES IS WIDENING

BYLINE: Jon Sawyer Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau Chief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1792 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The key challenge for President George W. Bush, as he departs tonight on a
five-day tour that takes him from Spain to Slovenia, is to keep Europe from
"doing a Jeffords."

Bush's task, says Brookings Institution foreign policy fellow Philip Gordon, is
to not give Europeans an excuse for "going independent" on foreign policy in the
way that Sen. James Jeffords, I-Vt., bolted last month from the GOP fold.

It won't be easy, not with deepening divisions over issues as diverse as global
warming, missile defense and capital punishment, not to mention widespread
dismissals of Bush in liberal-leaning Europe as a conservative ideologue and
foreign-policy lightweight.

Bush will confront all of those issues and more in a series of meetings
including a NATO summit, a European Union summit and his first meeting with
Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Jeffords' defection is itself a complicating factor. The fact that Democrats now
control the Senate has reinserted a question mark over prospects for deploying a
missile defense, in particular, just as Bush's administration was making
progress in convincing Europe and Russia that there was no turning back on its
new approach.

"I happened to be in Moscow when Jeffords made the switch," said Kim Holmes,
vice president for defense policy at the Heritage Foundation. "Before the
announcement, everyone seemed resigned to missile defense going forward. Then
the announcement came, and there was an immediate cooling, a pulling back.

"It makes sense. The Russians are saying that if you're not certain about it,
why should we be?"

Russian restiveness about Bush was on full display at a conference this weekend
sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Senior Russian
officials raised the specter of a Russia-China alliance against the West.

"I think we have 18 months to fix the relationship," said Sergei Rogov, director
of the Institute of the U.S. and Canada at the Russian Academy of Sciences.

If Bush moves further on missile defense and if NATO expands its membership to
include Baltic republics that were part of the Soviet Union before its collapse,
Rogov warned, "then talk of Russia becoming a junior brother to China could
become a reality."

Longtime specialists discount the risks as long as the administration makes good
on its pledge of plenty of consultation as the process moves forward.

"I'm not persuaded by the threat that if we proceed, Russia will turn nasty,"
said Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser under President Jimmy
Carter.

Strobe Talbott, the point person on Russia policy during President Bill
Clinton's administration, said that for Russia to obtain the Western investment
and trade its economy desperately needs, it cannot afford to block NATO
membership for Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia.

"The rationale for this happening is very simple," Talbott told the Carnegie
conference. "Russia wants to return to Europe. It needs to return to Europe. But
to do that, Russia cannot appear to be making it harder for others to return to
Europe."

Condoleezza Rice, Bush's national security adviser, predicted that Bush will
find more openness to missile defense than many anticipate.

"I think that I would not characterize it as disagreement," she said. "I would
say that we're in the midst of ongoing consultations with our allies about how
to best move forward to address the common threats of today's security
environment."

Rice said the administration appreciates the fact that it is proposing a
dramatic shift, from the Cold War architecture of "mutually assured destruction"
and a focus on arms-control treaties to a greater emphasis on defense and on the
new threats from terrorists and so-called rogue states.

"We understand that there is a lot to digest here," Rice said. "But the one
thing the president will really underscore is that we have more in common than
we have in disagreement and that we really should be celebrating that which we
have in common."

Bush may succeed in making that point on broad security issues. He is likely to
face a rockier road when it comes to selling the Europeans on his views on the
next steps for free trade and environmental protection.

On trade, Bush is pushing for a new round of global trade talks, the effort that
collapsed two years ago in Seattle amid street riots, U.S.-European divisions,
and protests from the developing world against talk of imposing labor and
environmental standards.

Now Bush is trying again, his task complicated by a less robust domestic economy
and a deeply divided Congress. The trade-offs were apparent last week, with the
administration abandoning its free-trade dogma to pursue an anti-dumping case
against foreign competitors of American steel companies. The administration is
under pressure from prominent Republicans, among them Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C.,
to do the same on textiles.

Pascal Lamy, European Union trade minister, said in a speech last Thursday
before the Economic Strategy Institute that Europe regards the new moves as
rankly protectionist.

"Now I know that unilateralism, like beauty, often lies in the eye of the
beholder," he said. "One man's unilateralism is another's determined leadership.
But for me, the distinction here concerns whether one is willing to play within
the rules of the game and take others' interests and concerns into account.

"I am not here today to offer my views on Kyoto, or national missile defense,"
Lamy said, in a pointed reference to other key irritants in the U.S.-European
relationship. But as to the steel dispute, he said, "We are concerned lest the
U.S. feels that it can and should try to solve the problem through pressure on
others or, worse still, through muscle."

"Kyoto" has become international shorthand for allegations that Bush has
backslided on environmental protection. The specific reference is the 1997
protocol on global warming, signed in Kyoto, Japan, that mandated steep
reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide by industrialized countries.

Bush renounced the treaty earlier this year, declaring it one-sided and unfair.
He established a Cabinet-level group to study the issue and come up with
alternative solutions. He is scheduled to outline his general views before
leaving Washington today, but aides say he will not bring specific proposals to
the meetings in Europe.

"You can predict that at least one European leader this week will wag his finger
at Bush to make points with a home constituency," said John Hulsman, a research
fellow at the Heritage Foundation. "Bush's response is crucial. Does he listen?
Does he talk back? Does he mention the fact that no country has met the
standards of Kyoto, not one?"

Lamy, the EU trade minister, said the dispute over Kyoto exposes fault lines
that run deeper, to the relationship between environmental policy and economic
prosperity and to differing views on the need for multilateral approaches to
world problems.

"The view on this side of the ocean, that caring about the environment is bad
for the economy, is something we don't believe," Lamy said. "We did 20 years
ago. But now there's a huge consensus in Europe that caring about the
environment creates jobs, that it's good for the economy. That's our view - and
also, that there's no way this challenge will be solved without more
international governance."

Ivo Daalder, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and former staff
director on the National Security Council under Clinton, said the underlying
fact is that Europeans and the United States simply view the world in different
ways, a difference magnified now that the allies no longer have the Soviet Union
as a common enemy.

Europe today is focused on itself, on the process of economic and political
integration that looms far larger for most European countries than any outside
threat. Social issues dominate public discussion, from climate change to food
safety to capital punishment, the latter a special bone of contention this week
amid publicity over Oklahoma City bomber T imothy McVeigh and Bush's record as
the governor who presided over the most state executions.

European countries are hardly monolithic, of course. The new conservative
government in Italy agrees with Bush on the Kyoto treaty and is supportive on
missile defense, for example, as is Great Britain. Yet skepticism runs deep, as
reflected in media across the continent that have portrayed Bush as a
gun-slinging, Bible-toting, Texas executioner heedless of what anyone else might
think.

The issues that have roiled Europe don't loom so large in the United States, at
least not yet. What Bush's administration reflects is an American focus instead
on U.S. vulnerability - to individual terrorists, rogue states and an
increasingly assertive China.

The consequence of those differing views, Daalder said, is a reorientation of
U.S. foreign policy away from the preoccupation with Europe that characterized
the past half-century and more.

From the U.S. perspective, "the fact is that Europe is today more peaceful, more
democratic and more stable than ever before," Daalder said. "Europe is - quote,
unquote - done, whereas many parts of the world are not done and require more
attention."

=====================

Bush bound for Europe

President George W. Bush, embarks tonight on a whirlwind tour of Europe that
will expose him to European leaders and to a European public that has leaders
who have greeted many of his initiatives with skepticism or outright opposition.
What follows is his itinerary for the week.

Tuesday, Madrid, Spain: The warm-up, a mostly ceremonial occasion that features
a meeting with King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia. Look for street demonstrations
from death-penalty opponents and critics of Bush's environmental policies.

Wednesday, Brussels, Belgium: A meeting with the heads of state from all NATO
countries, many of them looking to Bush to clarify conflicting signals on U.S.
commitment to peacekeeping in the Balkans and U.S. intentions on missile
defense.

Thursday, Gothenburg, Sweden: A meeting with the leaders of the European Union,
with Bush fielding complaints about U.S. disavowal of the Kyoto global-warming
traty and Bush's move last Tuesday to protect the domestic steel industry.

Friday, Warsaw, Poland: The setting for what the White House bills as Bush's
major speech of the trip, a tribute to Poland's democratic transition and a
pledge of U.S. support for a Europe that is "whole, free and at peace."

Saturday, Ljubljana, Slovenia: The former Yugoslav republic that many rank first
on the list for future NATO Membership Slovenia is also where Bush holds his
first metting with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Source: Compiled by Jon Sawyer

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC; Graphic / Chart by the POST-DISPATCH - Bush bound for Europe
(See text field.); Source: Compiled by Jon Sawyer

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             254 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 June 28, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Briefs Column; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 575 words


EUROPE

GERMANY

Top court outlaws child porn on the Internet

Distributing child pornography on the Internet is no different from circulating
such material in print and will carry a sentence of up to 15 years, Germany's
top criminal court announced Wednesday.

The ruling by the Federal Court of Justice set a precedent for Germany, which
previously had no firm legal policy for punishing people who distribute
pornographic images of children over the Internet. In future, they will face
prison sentences of two to 15 years.

The ruling was issued after a state court in Wuerzburg found a man guilty of
child abuse and distributing pornography for posting pictures of a 13-year-old
girl on an Internet site.

MACEDONIA

Embassy orders Americans to leave because of riots

The U.S. Embassy ordered up to 30 Americans to leave Macedonia on Wednesday
after riots that revealed rising anti-Western sentiment in the tense nation.

An embassy spokeswoman said the order to evacuate about 10 nonessential embassy
staff members and 20 contract workers was intended to shield U.S. citizens from
ethnic violence.

"This is something the U.S. Embassy does not want to fool around with," said the
spokeswoman, Yolanda Robinson. "It's a very unsettled situation and potentially
dangerous."

Canada issued a travel warning Wednesday, saying Canadians should consider
leaving Macedonia.

MIDDLE EAST

YEMEN

15 militants are arrested in crackdown

Authorities have arrested 15 Islamic militants in the latest crackdown on
militant groups since the bombing of the U.S. destroyer Cole in October,
security officials said Wednesday.

The arrests in the capital San'a and the southern city of Abyan were coupled
with a surveillance operation of houses of other militants in other Yemeni
cities, said the officials, on condition of anonymity.

The arrests began earlier this week and included 11 militants in San'a and four
in Abyan. The officials said most of those arrested belonged to Islamic Jihad
and the Aden-Abyan Islamic Army.

AFRICA

SOMALIA

Policemen patrol capital for first time in 10 years

Hundreds of armed policemen began patrolling the streets of Somalia's capital,
Mogadishu, on Wednesday for the first time in 10 years, as the fledgling
government tried to take back the streets from clan-based militias.

It was the first major police operation since President Mohamed Siad Barre was
ousted in 1991. More than 2,000 uniformed officers and 45 pickup trucks fitted
with anti-tank and anti-aircraft guns deployed at dawn at strategic points in
Mogadishu, said police Col. Abdi Hassan Awaleh Qeybdid.

One gunmen was killed by police and 50 others arrested.

SOUTH AMERICA

PERU

Jailed spymaster may try to incriminate Fujimori

Jailed spymaster Vladimiro Montesinos says he may hand over 30,000 videos
documenting dirty work behind former President Alberto Fujimori's government -
apparently seeking to avoid a stint in a tough anti-terrorist prison he helped
design.

How much Montesinos will tell is still unknown, his lawyer said Wednesday. But
the government appears to be eyeing possibilities for seeking the extradition of
Fujimori, who has been holed up in his ancestral homeland of Japan since fleeing
the country in November.

Montesinos was Fujimori's right-hand man during his 1990-2000 tenure as
president. He is charged with running a web of corruption that controlled large
portions of the military, police and legal system.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: NATION & WORLD

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             255 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   June 28, 2001 Thursday Three Star Edition

AFTER RIOTS, U.S. EMBASSY EVACUATES SOME DEPENDENTS AND STAFF FROM MACEDONIA;
 OFFICIALS FEAR RISING ANTI-WESTERN SENTIMENT

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: SKOPJE, MACEDONIA


The U.S. Embassy ordered up to 30 Americans to leave Macedonia on Wednesday
after riots that revealed rising anti-Western sentiment in the tense nation.

An embassy spokeswoman said the order to evacuate about 10 nonessential embassy
staff members and 20 contract workers was intended to shield U.S. citizens from
ethnic violence.

"This is something the U.S. Embassy does not want to fool around with," said the
spokeswoman, Yolanda Robinson. "It's a very unsettled situation and potentially
dangerous."

Canada issued a travel warning Wednesday, saying Canadians should consider
leaving Macedonia. Germany and Britain also published travel warnings but did
not order citizens to leave.

Western officials said that the United States has more contract workers in
Macedonia than other Western nations. About 2,000 Americans live in Macedonia,
compared with 120 Britons, for example.

The mood in the country was tense even before Monday, when armed Macedonian
reservists fired on the Parliament during a violent protest by about 5,000
ethnic Slavs.

The protesters were angry about a cease-fire with ethnic Albanian rebels who had
occupied the village of Aracinovo just outside the capital. U.S. troops, acting
under a NATO umbrella and supporting a cease-fire brok ered by the European
Union, escorted the rebels out of Aracinovo and released them in the mountains
about seven miles away - with their weapons.

Although no incidents of violence against Americans or other Westerners in the
capital were reported Wednesday, some American residents say they have noticed a
recent subtle change of attitude. And minor incidents have occurred, like
anti-American graffiti on homes, or windows broken on cars that have plates
identifying them as American-owned.

Americans Richard and Amy Hurelbrink of Edinburg, Ill., who are among the 20
contract workers, are not questioning the order. Over the weekend, they watched
from their hillside balcony overlooking Skopje as Macedonian helicopters
bombarded the village of Aracinovo.

"It was surreal," Hurelbrink said. He has been helping to develop the dairy
industry under a U.S. government contract with Land O'Lakes Inc. - and plans to
continue work from the couple's other residence near Munich, Germany.

The project's staff of 37 grew more nervous as violence drew closer to the
capital after being mostly contained to northern border towns during the four
months of insurgency by Albanian rebels.

Bush won't rule out troops

In Washington, meanwhile, President George W. Bush did not rule out the
possibility of sending U.S. troops to Macedonia to help quell unrest there.

"I take no option off the table in terms of the troops. We're a particip ant in
NATO," Bush told reporters when asked whether he saw any chance of committing
U.S. soldiers to Macedonia to prevent a civil war.

He pointed out that he had pledged during a trip to Europe earlier this month
that the United States would stick with NATO peacekeeping forces in the Balkans
as long as they are there.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             257 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                              July 28, 2003 Monday
                                  City Edition

Letters to the editor

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1275 words


SCHOOLS NEED OFFICERS

On July 14 I attended the Lincoln Public Schools budget forum at Northstar High
School.  One of the items I wanted to find out about was the stance of the LPS
Board on resource officers from the Lincoln Police Department in our schools.  I
soon found out that the LPS Board recommended cutting the officers out of the
budget.  In member Jim Garver's words, "We are here to educate, not protect." I
found this somewhat alarming.  That following Thursday, I attended Councilwoman
Patte Newman's neighborhood meeting.  I questioned the City Budget Officer,
Steve Hubka, on the issue.  He informed me that getting the resource officers
funded in the next budget could be a challenge.  Newman echoed that opinion.
After an interesting discussion within the group attending that night, I am of
the opinion that, one, there are people in influential positions in the City of
Lincoln who are seriously out of touch and, two, parents of school-age children
need to stand up and contact members of the Lincoln school board, the city
council and Mayor Coleen Seng.

Ladies and gentlemen, the resource officers play an important role in the
education, safety and well being of our students and LPS staff.  The 14 officers
are a presence in and around our schools.  In the elementary schools they are an
educational tool for our children, talking with them about issues that are of
concern with parents, teachers and students.  There are five officers for our
elementary schools in Lincoln.  In the middle school system, the officers take a
proactive approach dealing with at-risk students, students who have presented
problems with students and staff. The officers are again an educational
presence.  Within the last 12 months, we have had cases of attempted abduction
and exposure near our elementary and middle schools.

Officers have a very important presence in our high schools,     dealing with
some of the same matters as stated earlier.  But here, the possibility of
serious situations are of constant concern.  Over the last seven years there
have been 17 documented school shootings in the United States.  This does not
include the cases that were busted in time before violent acts could occur.  We
have had students in the Lincoln School System bring guns and other dangerous
weapons to school!  Our children deserve the right to attend school in as much
peace as we can give them.  Parents of Lincoln, it is time to stand up and be
heard.

We need four votes on the City Council for this budget priority.  Make the
calls.  Write the letters!

Michael Stroup, Lincoln

RICH REPUBLICANS TAKE ALL

Good for Dick Cheney and the rich Republicans in our state. How nice to raise
$400,000 plus in a state where schools are cutting budgets and teachers, where
the University is slashing programs and teachers, our farmers are struggling
with drought and low prices. Our real-estate taxes are going up, and everything
available is having a tax put on it. We have seen interest so low our CDs are
worthless, our stock portfolios have gone down. Prescription drugs have gone up
to the point where people have to order medicine from Canada.

This "let them eat cake" policy is killing America. Where are the kind and
compassionate Republicans now? Where are the jobs for an ever-rising number of
unemployed? Remember this when you vote.

Esther Schott, Lincoln

CLERGY IS IN THE WRONG

I sincerely pray that Monsignor Thorburn will find it in his heart to spend his
precious time in the future tending to the needs of his diocesan folk instead of
writing paranoiac diatribes (letters, July 20) portraying the Catholic clergy as
victims of a bigoted newspaper.

The LJS, in my opinion, has been forthright and fair in its coverage of the
recent scandals in the Church.  It has resisted the temptation to be
sensationalistic about an issue that concerns many Catholics.

I also pray that he would instead use his energy to try to convince his
superiors, locally and nationally, to resist using the legalistic defense of the
"statute of limitations" regarding child abuse allegations and work toward
healing the wounds. Social justice and Christian charity are not served by
thrashing in an accusatory manner at others, but are best served by confession,
apology, and retribution  true signs of seeking forgiveness.

Robert D. Brown, Lincoln

NO-BRAINER?TRY THIS

I have to respond to Jo Naber's letter to the editor in the July 23 paper
concerning the no-brainer pick for president.

Let's see.  Who would I choose to be president?

Bill Clinton, an immoral and valueless  man who was spending more time having an
extra-marital affair in the oval office than conducting the country's business?

Or George W. Bush, a good Christian man who cares about the lives of unborn
children and the lives and safety of the people of this country to do something
about the terrorists who attacked this country, its ships and embassies during
his years in office and during the eight years preceding when "no-brainer Bill"
was in office.

Now this is a no-brainer!

Gretchen Kechely, Roca

A DARK DAY IN HISTORY

"Riot at courthouse in 1919 one of Omaha's darkest hours" (LJS, July 20) reminds
us of a grim piece of Nebraskan history.  What's not clear from Jim McKee's
accurate and engaging article is the broader context in which this lynching of a
likely innocent man took place.

America's engagement in World War I gave rise to a two-year period of
intensified repression of political dissidents and African Americans at home.
Many white Americans outside the former Confederacy had liked to think of Jim
Crow violence since the Civil War as a Southern phenomenon, but in the summer of
1919 large-scale, white-initiated race riots in cities from Washington to
Chicago revealed that the sickness of racial brutality pervaded all parts of the
United States.

And the Omaha riot and lynching in September of that year made plain that this
savagery could extend beyond large cities to the most stable of mid-American
towns.  It's part of a past we are still working our way through.

Tim Borstelmann, Lincoln

COMMISSION WILL MISS OUT

The appointment process rejected Sandra Washington for a position on the
Planning Commission and thereby denied Lincoln and Lancaster County the
opportunity to be served by this talented, well-qualified woman. She is bright,
articulate, considerate, open-minded and willing to risk sharing her considered
ideas in serving the organization to which she is committed. She invests the
time required to be informed on issues. She is a leader worthy of our respect.

Our National Park Service has recognized her talents by appointing her as its
chief of planning and compliance for the Midwest Region. I recognize those same
talents by virtue of having served with Sandra for several years on the
Executive Committee and the Homestead Council of the Girl Scouts.

Doug Curry, Lincoln

'ACES' HEADLINE UNCOOL

I was appalled at the Journal Star's cavalier headline on Wednesday, "U.S.
collects two aces." The description of the deaths of four people, including a
child, in terms of a poker game is indicative of the way the more conservative
media have glorified the action in Iraq.

As a teacher, I see firsthand how the Journal Star's consistent reporting of our
presence in Iraq, as if it were a kind of game, inspires my students to want to
go there, not to protect U.S. hearth and home, but because it's cool.

The Journal Star's readiness to build on Bush's macho glorification of this
oil-inspired takeover is the kind of reporting that contributes to the death of
about one disillusioned American young person every single day. Please tell me
how that is cool.

Shannon Nolte, Lincoln

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2003 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             258 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                           August 17, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Milwaukee imposes curfew to deter riots

BYLINE: United States

SECTION: A; Pg. A016

LENGTH: 300  words


Milwaukee imposes curfew to deter riots United States A member of Sylville
Smith's family at a candlelight vigil.

Rocks were thrown at police and shots fired in Milwaukee. Photos: AP Tension
gripped Milwaukee as officials hoped a late-night curfew imposed on teenagers
would deter another outbreak of rioting that hit the US Midwestern city the past
two nights in response to the police shooting of an armed black man.

Late on Monday afternoon, dozens of police, some in riot gear, erected fencing
to cordon off Sherman Park, the centre of the neighbourhood that was the scene
of the weekend shooting and subsequent disturbances. Nearby, about 100 people
held a picnic in a grassy area.

"Things got a little bit quieter last night, although there were still
disturbances," Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker said, "but our hope is tonight
things will finally quiet down thanks in large part to the leadership of many
pastors and other church leaders in the Milwaukee community".

As the sun set, there was notably lower foot traffic in the neighbourhood ahead
of the 10pm curfew. Police vehicles were seen parked in alleys and along major
thoroughfares in that area of the city.

"There is a curfew that will be more strictly enforced tonight for teenagers,"
Mayor Tom Barrett told a news conference.

"So parents, after 10 o'clock your teenagers better be home or in a place where
they're off the streets."

Mr Barrett renewed his call for state officials to release a video of the
Saturday night shooting in hopes it would convince angry protesters that deadly
force against Sylville K. Smith, 23, was justified.

Famed for its breweries, Milwaukee is also one of the most segregated cities in
America, with a large concentration of unemployed black men in the inner city
separated from the mostly white suburbs.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2016 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             259 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday

Paper looks at possible impact of Moldavan unrest on Russian domestic policy

LENGTH: 857 words


Text of report by Russian Gazeta.ru news website, often critical of the
government, on 8 April

[Editorial: "The 'Orange' Reaction"]

The protests against the results of the parliamentary elections in Moldova could
also have consequences for Russia. The Kremlin authorities may, if desired, use
the Moldova riots in particular to centralize further the RF's political system.

The Russian Foreign Affairs Ministry (read: Russian leadership) has reacted with
significant tardiness to the mass disorders in the capital of Moldova - a
country, which after the war in Georgia has become a unique range for the
Kremlin to demonstrate a different, "peace-loving" foreign policy. The statement
of our MID [Ministry of Foreign Affairs] was sounded after Moldovan President
Vladimir Voronin accused Romania of organizing an attempt to overthrow the
state. Here the RF MID's statement is not so much important from the point of
view of foreign policy assessments (Russia's position on domestic Moldovan
affairs is hardly of interest to anyone outside of the borders of our country,
just as a poor, small Moldova in the large account is not the least significant
for either the United States or for the European Union). This statement is much
more important from the point of view of the domestic-political reaction of the
Russian government to another appearance of the specter of "colour revolutions"
in the post-Soviet space. In other words, the near future will show whether the
Russian government is ready to use the Moldovan events for the further
centralization of the political system in the same way it used the change of
power in Ukraine and Georgia and also the "home" tragedy of Beslan.

"Judging by the slogans proclaimed in the squares and the abundance of Romanian
flags in the hands of the arrangers of these excesses, their goal consists of
discrediting the achievements of recent years in securing Moldova's sovereignty
and possibly in someway influencing the results of the elections," the statement
says. For Russia - a self-proclaimed "sovereign democracy" - there is no more
serious, alien foreign-policy sin than "an attack on the sovereignty" of a
country with a government relatively friendly to the Kremlin if there is a
threat of a relatively unfriendly government appearing there.

After the successful - from the Russian government's point of view - attack on
Georgia's sovereignty in August of last year and the recognition of the
independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, the practically unrealistic scenario
of pro-Romanian political forces coming to power in Moldova would even be
advantageous for Russia. Then there definitely would be no necessity to "give up
the Dniester Region" and tilt the permanent president of this unrecognized
territory, Igor Smirnov, towards direct negotiations with Chisinau. It is
well-known that after the war with Georgia, in order to reduce the
foreign-political losses from the recognition of the former Georgian autonomies,
the Russian government organized two meetings between the president of Russia
and the presidents of Moldova and the Dniester Moldovan Republic [PMR]. Moscow
wanted to prove in this way that it could mediate the resolution of similar
conflicts in the post-Soviet space by other than "surgical means".

If the current disorders in Chisinau had actually led to a change of power, then
Moscow would not have had to give the appearance that it was truly ready for
some kind of integration of the PMR with Moldova.

It would have been easy to accuse the EU of not preventing a pro-Romanian putsch
and even to try to play the "recognition of the Dniester Region" against the new
Moldovan government.

Thus, for Russia the main foreign-political consequence of the riots in Moldova
is that there is now no clear need to demonstrate a constructive position on the
settlement of the "frozen" conflicts in the post-Soviet space that would be in
contradiction with Moscow's aggressive foreign policy line of recent years. Now
such "peacekeeping" becomes completely optional for Russia.

The domestic political consequences wholly and completely depend on how
seriously the Russian government views the events in Moldova. There are no
chances of a repeat of such a scenario in Moscow in the foreseeable future. Our
next federal elections are in two and a half years.

There have never yet been mass demonstrations against election results in
Russia's history. If Russia should have mass protests, their detonator will be
the economic crisis.

Meanwhile, not one representative of the Russian government, fortunately, has
said one word about the complicity of the United States and the West as a whole
in the Moldovan riots. The Russian MID in its statement supported the "Romanian"
version of the Moldovan government. And the specter of "Romanian imperialism",
we hope, will not frighten the Russian government as the specter of "American
imperialism" frightens it. Such a reaction gives a chance that the Russian
government will not use the Moldovan disorder after all as another informational
pretext to tighten up the screws in our country.

Source: Gazeta.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 8 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             260 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 15, 2011 Tuesday

Hezbollah TV accuses Lebanon's 14 March forces of exploiting Al-Hariri's blood

LENGTH: 591 words


Text of report by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV on 14 February

[Report over video by Muna Tuhayni]

[Mews presenter] Over the past six years, the 14 March team spared no effort to
exploit former Prime Minister martyr Rafiq al-Hariri's blood on every political
opportunity.

[Begin report over video by Muna Tuhayni] Before the dust of the 14 February
[2005] bombing settled, France demanded an international investigation to reveal
the circumstances of the crime. Washington, for its part, demanded an end to the
Syrian occupation.

The quick international exploitation was matched by a direct local exploitation
to fulfil political demands. Eleven days later, the international investigation
commission began its operation. Within one month, it recommended that the chiefs
of the Lebanese security agencies be removed. Detlev Mehlis then came and Syria
was accused.

Against the background of the inquiry commission's work and results, Washington
was programming its plan to take hold of Lebanon, and the political tone of the
14 March team was getting sharper. This team called for Syrian withdrawal and
the departure of the then Lebanese President Emile Lahhud.

The Syrian Army withdrew in implementation of the Al-Ta'if agreement, but the
exploitation of the assassination crime continued. In the parliamentary
election, the slogan that the 14 March team raised was: "Those who do not vote
for us vote for the killers." That was the headline of the attack on the 8 March
team, and the parliament received a new majority. The ceiling of this majority's
demands and accusations got higher on every subsequent anniversary of
Al-Hariri's assassination. On the first anniversary, the speakers in the arena
continued to demand the departure of President Lahhud and to level accusations
to Syria. On the second anniversary, the 14 March team refused to use government
partnership as a headline to cover the criminals and killers or to bargain over
the martyrs' blood, as this team put it. And under the headline of torpedoing
the partnership, Prime Minister Fuad Siniora made a unilateral decision
demanding the establishment of an international tribunal. He sent a letter to
the UN Security Council in which he asked that the tribunal become a fait
accompli.

Two years of political exchanges followed, during which the tribunal was used as
a scarecrow until it came to life in March 2009. That same year witnessed
parliamentary election in which the main player was the same tune: the truth.
The result was that the majority maintained its majority. That same tune was
played on every occasion. But at a moment of settlement, Al-Hariri junior sold
the tribunal and strived to fortify his team's position in power. But the
Americans foiled the settlement.

As events progressed, Sa'd al-Hariri failed to keep his government. He fell
constitutionally and lost the idea of eternity as head of government. So once
again the "truth" slogan resurfaced and the voice of the martyr prime minister's
blood reappeared on platforms. The supporters of the blue colour [reference to
Future Movement] expressed anger, but without any results. The blue was
cornered, and the sixth anniversary of the assassination came against the
backdrop of political bankruptcy. The martyr prime minister was revived once
again in pictures that entail both enthusiasm and incitement. [End report; video
shows file footage of 14 March rallies, investigators, riots, US and American
officials, and pictures of late Rafiq al-Hariri]

Source: Al-Manar Television, Beirut, in Arabic 1753 gmt 14 Feb 11

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             261 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

Programme summary of Afghan Arzu TV news in Dari 1530 gmt 10 Aug 11

LENGTH: 488 words


Presenter: Solayman Qayumi

A. News headlines

B. Home news:

1. 0130 Head of Independent Election Commission (IEC), Fazl Ahmad Manawi,
welcomes Afghan president's decision on authorising this commission for deciding
on final results of 18 September parliamentary election. Some MPs do not welcome
this decision and say the president has ordered the IEC to replace 62
disqualified MPs with newly announced winning candidates by the special election
tribunal recently. Meanwhile, an analyst says the president does not have the
privilege to give orders to IEC since it is an independent body. Video shows a
parliament session; archive footage of Afghan security forces searching people
and a vote counting process.

2.0850 The spokesman for the Ministry of National Defence at a news conference
says chemicals used for making roadside mines are imported through Pakistan
routes. He says more than 80 per cent of casualties in Afghan army are caused by
roadside mines. The spokesman for ISAF says insurgents do not have the ability
to fight in the face to face battle against security forces and concentrate on
bomb. This comes after US Defence Department recently expressed concerns over an
increase in planting of roadside mines by insurgents in Afghanistan. Video shows
a news conference, archive footage of an explosion.

3. 1150 Officials of Ministry of National Defence say Afghan security forces are
prepared for the second phase of the transition process. The spokesman for the
ministry says the schedule for provinces where second phase of transition takes
place will be specified in next three months. Meanwhile, ISAF spokesman says
Afghan security forces will be equipped more than ever while they take security
responsibility. Video shows a news conference and Afghan security forces.

4. 1425 Independent administration for anti-corruption records properties of
high-ranking officials of Information and Culture Ministry. Officials of this
body say recording of properties of government officials is an effective measure
to prevent corruption in the country. Video shows a news conference.

C. Economic news:

1. 1650 National Solidarity Programme has completed 32 development projects in
northern Konduz Province. Officials of Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and
Development in this province say more than 7,000 families benefit from these
projects. Video shows an interview and a busy city street.

2. 1900 A charity foundation distributed food as aid to an association of blind
people in northern Balkh Province today. Video shows aid distribution process
and interviews.

D. 2135 Commercial.

E. 2340 Foreign news: UK's Ministry of Interior says serious measures are taken
to control riots; US drones killed 20 insurgents in Pakistan; NATO air strikes
killed 85 people in Libya; conflict between south and north Koreas.

F. Sports

G. Weather forecast.

Bulletin lasted for 32 minutes

Source: Arzu TV, Mazar-e Sharif, in Dari 1500 gmt 10 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             262 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

Pakistani TV show discusses UK riots

LENGTH: 1171 words


Geo News TV in Urdu at 1800 gmt on 10 August carries live regularly scheduled
program, "Aapas Ki Baat" hosted by Muneeb Farooq and Najam Sethi. The program
brings in-depth analysis on burning issues faced by Pakistan. Words within
double slanted lines are in English.

Program: "Aapas Ki Baat"

Duration: 60 minutes

Reception: Good

Farooq begins the program referring to London riots. Farooq says that three
Pakistanis have also lost their lives in Birmingham as the riots are no more
confined to London. Farooq adds that today [ 10 August] they will discuss the
cause and background of riots in the United Kingdom. Farooq further says: "Riots
have caused concern among Pakistanis in the United Kingdom. More than 1,000
people have been arrested and around 100 have been indicted by London police so
far. Meanwhile, the United States is facing economic crisis these days." Farooq
adds that they will also discuss the United States' //credit rating//. Farooq
further says that they will discuss whether the domestic economic crisis will
affect President Obama's chances to be elected as president for the second term.

Segment I

Farooq asks Sethi how he views the London riots. Sethi says, "Riots in the
United Kingdom are a historical phenomenon. Though terrorism does not exist in
the United Kingdom but history tells that outbreak of riots is quite usual.
Numerous books are available on the //phenomenon of riots// in the United
Kingdom. Sometimes riots are triggered by football matches as British people are
extremely passionate about football. Another kind of riots in the United Kingdom
are called //Ghetto riots//. These riots are related to immigrants. Some
poverty-stricken immigrants live in specific areas in the United Kingdom.
//Unemployment// and poverty are the main problems of those immigrants. Ghetto
riots take place mostly in industrial cities of the United Kingdom, for example,
Birmingham, Manchester, and Leeds."

Continuing, Sethi says "According to London Police, the man killed by them was
carrying a weapon. Keeping weapons is strictly forbidden in the United Kingdom.
The exchange of fire between the police and the murdered man is in itself an
//extraordinary// incident by the standards of the British society. Youngsters
who are involved in riots are not related to a specific group in terms of
religion, race, color, or nationality; instead, what is common in them is that
they belong to //lower middle class//. The United Kingdom, Europe, and the
United States are again embroiled in economic crisis. People are getting
frustrated and angry with their governments due to their economic difficulties."
Sethi says: "Let us baptize these riots as //consumer riots//." Sethi adds that
according to Amazon.co.uk, an online retail outlet, more than 5,000 cricket bats
have been bought during the last 48 hours to break windows of shops in London
and other cities of the United Kingdom and loot shop items. Sethi reveals that
the main target of these raging youngsters is the shops that sell clothes and
electronic items.

Farooq plays a video report on riots in the United Kingdom. The report says that
according to the UK police, the riots and violence in London and Manchester are
extraordinary. The report quotes police sources as saying that they are trying
to make every possible effort to control riots. The report further says that it
has become a challenge for police to control riots in Manchester, Liverpool,
Nottingham, and Birmingham. Many shopkeepers are in shock to see their shops
destroyed and property looted. The report adds that police has arrested more
than 750 people so far. British people are asking the Army to control the
situation.

Farooq asks Sethi whether he sees any ethnic factor in these riots. Sethi says:
"At the moment he does not see any ethnic factor. These riots were triggered by
the death of a person, but the protest against the murder soon changed into
consumer riots. Sikh and Muslim communities cooperate with each other in the
United Kingdom and they have constituted groups to resist thieves and burglars.
They stand together to protect their worship places as well as their shops and
businesses. Both Muslim and Sikh minorities are against plunder and violence and
they are not backing the rioters in the current phase of unrest; so perhaps this
is one reason why Pakistanis got killed during these riots.Both the communites
are reluctant to take part in stealing of shop items, which is why raging
youngsters are getting annoyed with Pakistanis.

Segment II

Farooq says that the United States is also hit by economic crisis and it has
lost its //credit rating//. Sethi says: "The United States is also facing
economic crisis and thousands of US citizens are jobless. Outbreak of consumer
riots in the United States cannot be ruled out. Unemployment and poverty are at
worse in areas where blacks are in majority. //Lower middle class// of the
United States is mainly comprised of black people. The US police will be very
aggressive to control possible riots. White Americans can also take part in
violence and riots as they are frustrated due to negative impact of capitalism.
Violence in the United States in the wake of economic crisis will create a
dangerous situation; however, the state police are strong and respond instantly
and ruthlessly."

Farooq asks Sethi why the United States has lost its credit rating. Sethi says
that the United States used to enjoy //AAA// credit rating since 1920s until
recently, due to its economic strength. Sethi says: "The United States' credit
rating has gone from //AAA// to //AA// for the first time. The United States'
Gross Domestic Product [GDP] is $14 trillion and debt is $13 trillion; so debt
to GDP ratio is almost 95 percent. The Republican Party, which holds majority in
the Congress, is trying to somehow thwart President Obama's plan to get elected
as president for the second term. Rightwing white Americans are reluctant to be
led by a black president for four more years. The Republicans are resisting
President Obama's plan to increase tax on rich people and cut the //defense
expenditure//. The expenditure on Afghan War has played a key role in
deterioration of the US economy."

Segment III

Farooq says that according to reports the United States is pressurizing Pakistan
to become a signatory to the Conference of Disarmament Treaty and stop producing
nuclear weapons in abundance. Sethi says: "The United States wants //stockpile//
of nuclear products to be reduced on international level and seeks contribution
of countries capable of producing nuclear weapons. President Obama wants to
impose ban on production of nuclear weapons around the globe. The United States
also wants Pakistan to stop //uranium and plutonium enrichment//. Pakistan has
reservations on India's stockpile. The United States is trying to use the
Security Council to pressurize Pakistan in this regard. China is likely to
support Pakistan on this issue.

Farooq concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1800gmt 10 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             263 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday

Syrian television reports on London riots, US role in confronting rioters

LENGTH: 379 words


Text of report by Syrian TV on 13 August

British Prime Minister David Cameron's most recent invention was to expel people
from the social houses in an attempt to control the crisis caused by the
protests and the riots that his country has been witnessing for the past eight
days as if the demonstrators have not suffered enough from their misery,
despair, hardships, and unemployment. This punishment by Cameron covers all
those who participated in the demonstrations that London has been witnessing and
which spread throughout all the British areas. This has forced approximately
16,000 policemen to deploy on the streets instead of the 2,500 that usually
patrol the streets during peace time in Britain.

To complete this British invention, the United Kingdom sought the assistance of
its friend, the United States, to quell its people, restrain them, and prevent
them from protesting once again. In spite of all the measures taken, five people
were killed, around 1,900 were arrested and the bill for these protests has
risen to approximately $1.6 billion.

[Begin recording William Praton, former New York Police Chief] I believe that
part of what the British Government is doing now is to study what has succeeded
and what did not over the past week. My task is to focus more clearly on issues
related to the US experience in dealing with the gangs and what we could
exchange with them.[end recording]

A public opinion poll by the Independent paper shows that around 55 per cent of
the British citizens believe that their prime minister who described what took
place as a pure crime of robbery, thus ruling out problems caused by poverty and
the unequal distribution of the wealth among the members of society, has failed
in fully demonstrating his leadership at an early stage to control the riots,
particularly that he interrupted his leave three days after the eruption of the
protests.

Therefore, in a country that brags about democracy and human rights, its
officials have the right to send thousands of policemen and security forces to
the streets and even to have recourse to the army, arrest thousands, and kill
those they want without having the so-called international community say one
word.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1745 gmt 13 Aug 11

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             264 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Syria, Iran infl a ming riots: U.S.: Afghan cops kill four; Protests against
cartoons now targeting Washington

BYLINE: SHELDON ALBERTS and MIKE BLANCHFIELD, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 971  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON; OTTAWA


The Bush administration accused two long-time Middle Eastern adversaries - Syria
and Iran - yesterday of deliberately inciting Muslims to violent protest against
published cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad, and joined Canada in calling
for an end to a week of deadly rioting.

The appeal for calm came as protesters began to turn their fury - initially
directed at Denmark and other European nations - against U.S. targets.

In Afghanistan, police in the southern city of Qalat shot and killed four
demonstrators as hundreds of rioters attempted to march on a U.S. military base.

"We reject violence as a way to express discontent with what may be printed in a
free press," U.S. President George W. Bush said at the White House after a
meeting with Jordan's King Abdullah.

"I call upon the governments around the world to stop the violence," the
president continued, "to be respectful, to protect property, to protect the
lives of innocent diplomats who are serving their countries overseas."

Bush's secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, echoed growing international
thought that governments in Damascus and Tehran were fuelling Muslim unrest in
those two countries.

An Iranian newspaper has asked readers to submit cartoons about the Holocaust.

"Iran and Syria have gone out of their way to inflame sentiments and to use this
to their own purposes - and the world ought to call them on it," Rice said.

Iran has "not even hidden its hand in this," she added.

The Bush administration's tough line against rioting was a marked departure from
its initial response to the protests. The White House had earlier criticized the
violence but had stressed it understood the anger among Muslims over the
cartoons.

The protests were sparked by the publication in the Danish newspaper
Jyllands-Posten of a dozen cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad, including
one showing him wearing a bomb-shaped turban.

Islamic tradition forbids reproduction of Muhammad's

image.

The cartoons were subsequently reprinted in France, Norway, Italy and other
nations. Montreal's Le Devoir printed one of the series last Friday.

Only a handful of U.S. media outlets - the Philadelphia Inquirer, Fox News, the
New York Sun and Austin American-Statesman - have published or broadcast any of
the offending cartoons. But U.S. officials have reported that rioters
increasingly have been burning the Stars and Stripes alongside flags of other
nations, prompting concerns protests might increasingly be focused on U.S.
foreign policy in the Middle East.

In Ottawa, the new Conservative government for the first time weighed in on the
controversy - condemning the violence while urging Canadian and international
media to show restraint in their handling of the cartoons.

"Freedom of expression is a legally enshrined principle in Canada, but it must
be exercised responsibly," newly appointed Foreign Affairs Minister Peter MacKay
said. "However, we condemn the violent protests that have occurred in some parts
of the world, and find the attacks on foreign diplomatic missions particularly
deplorable."

Last week, Danish and Norwegian embassies in Syria were attacked, as was the
Danish mission in Lebanon. Bosnia, Pakistan, Bangladesh and the West Bank have
also witnessed violent protests.

Riad Saloojee, the executive director of the Canadian Council on
American-Islamic Relations, applauded MacKay for striking the right balance
between standing up for freedom of expression while condemning violence.

"We really do appreciate Mr. MacKay's leadership," Saloojee said. "I think
that's a very healthy perspective to take right now so we can move this crisis
forward and not be mired in mutual denunciation."

Yesterday, demonstrators in Tehran pelted the British embassy with stones - even
though London's famously provocative tabloids have largely stayed out of the
cartoon fray.

About 60 foreign observers in the West Bank city of Hebron were also forced to
leave yesterday after about 300 Palestinians stormed an international mission,
overpowering police.

Several demonstrators broke into the Temporary International Presence in Hebron
office, where alarmed staff members confronted them with clubs.

So far, 10 people have been killed in Afghanistan, while rioting has also spread
to parts of Indonesia, Somalia, Pakistan and Lebanon.

The international controversy over the protest also triggered a moment of
tension between Bush and Jordan's Abdullah during a joint news briefing.

Bush, who is embarking on a campaign to improve the United States' image in the
Muslim world, said his country "is a nation that believes in tolerance and
understanding."

Abdullah, in a tart response, said, "Tolerance is such an awful word," and
bemoaned the damage caused by a free press.

"With all respect to press freedoms, obviously, anything that vilifies the
Prophet Muhammad or attacks Muslim sensibilities, I believes needs to be
condemned," Abdullah said.

"At the same time, those that want to protest should do it thoughtfully,
articulately, express their views peacefully," he said. "Islam, like
Christianity and Judaism, is a religion of peace, tolerance, moderation."

In Paris, a city where Muslim youth rioted for weeks last year in protest
against living conditions, French President Jacques Chirac took a different tack
than leaders in Washington and Ottawa.

Chirac pleaded for French media to avoid "obvious provocations" of Muslims.

The French weekly Charlie-Hebdo printed the original drawings of Muhammad
yesterday. It showed the prophet with his head lowered in his hands. The caption
read: "It's hard to be loved by idiots."

Chirac said: "Anything that can hurt the convictions of another, particularly
religious convictions, must be avoided."

Ottawa Citizen

Online Extra: Learn more about the Islamic prohibition against depicting
Muhammad, at our website:

www.montrealgazette.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: PEDRO UGARTE, AFP VIA GETTY IMAGES; Employees from the Temporary
International Presence in Hebron repair some broken windows after their office
in the West Bank city of Hebron was attacked yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             265 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 22, 2011 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

YOUR SHOUT

BYLINE: FIONA PHILLIPS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 173 words


APOLOGIES to those (many!) who pointed out that Sunderland is not in David
Miliband's South Shields constituency. Now, let's carry on...

FIONA, j I do not doubt older female presenters receive less preferential
treatment on TV than their male counterparts.

However, remember the favourable advantages received by attractive young women
coming into television.

Countless times we see pretty, young (yet talentless) ladies being employed in
front-line presenting jobs purely because of their gorgeous looks and, arguably,
at the expense of men who are more qualified.

Mr F. Gordon, London

FIONA, you quite rightly complained about the price of petrol.

For those of us who live in the country the cost of heating oil is also
prohibitive.

Since November 2010, the price of oil has almost doubled. If petrol had risen by
that amount there would have been riots!

Those of us who live in the country are the silent minority being totally
exploited. How many elderly and low income families can afford such increases?

Pamela Broadhurst West Lulworth, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             267 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            February 24, 2006 Friday
                                  Main Edition

BLACK HISTORY: Context gives depth to events

BYLINE: CLARISSA MYRICK-HARRIS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 611 words


Once again we are holding our frenetic celebration of Black History Month.
During this 28-day period, the airways fill with Black History moments,
documentaries and feature movies. Teachers pull out units on the achievements
and contributions of African-Americans. Students write essays about inventors,
civil rights activists, entertainers and sports figures.

But to what end? Inevitably, this segregated approach to Black History
trivializes it. Black history is taken out of context.

I do not advocate ending Black History Month, as actor Morgan Freeman has done
recently. Rather, we must place this history in context.

In 1926, at the height of the Jim Crow Era and rampant racially motivated
violence against black people, scholar Carter G. Woodson introduced what began
as an annual one-week celebration to make "the world see the Negro as a
participant rather than as a lay figure in history." He believed that such an
event could counter the dehumanizing effects of racism on black men, women and
children and perhaps engender in those whites who devalued an entire race some
appreciation and respect for black life.

Woodson saw Black History Week as just the beginning of a process that could
help liberate the minds and spirits of black people, freeing us to realize our
worth and potential for profound contributions to the world.

Unfortunately, today most schools teach very little about the complexities of
the experiences of African-Americans in any sustained way. This superficial
approach also plays out in myriad ways in well-intentioned efforts throughout
the year meant to commemorate individuals and events in African-American
history. I'll note a couple of examples.

The activism, sacrifice and steadfastness of Coretta Scott King have been
recounted in the wake of her recent death, and rightly so. However, we must
understand something more about the context of her early life to fully
appreciate the meaning and lessons of her contributions.

It is profoundly significant, for instance, that Mrs. King's birthplace, Perry
County, Ala., was also the birthplace of the late Jean Childs Young, first wife
of Andrew Young, and Juanita Abernathy, wife of the late Ralph David Abernathy.

All three of these women were literally married to the civil rights movement;
all three came from the same nurturing environment in which young black women
were groomed for and expected to lead efforts to improve the world.

There are some encouraging steps being taken locally to place the history of
African-Americans in the proper context. The Georgia Department of Education is
integrating into the social studies curriculum lessons about the 1906 Atlanta
Race Riot.

Those of us involved in the Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot are
attempting to extend the study of this shameful chapter in the history of our
city by discussing it within the contexts of local, national and even
international historical and current events. Our efforts are meant to be just
the beginning of a process of collective healing and activism.

The aim is to memorialize those African-Americans killed during the massacre,
improve communication and understanding among the city's diverse population and
inspire people to make long-term commitments to addressing such issues as
racism, poverty and disenfranchisement, which still plague us 100 years later.

The celebrations of Black History Month should embody such goals as well,
enabling all Americans to engage in meaningful discourse regarding these issues.
Only by placing our history in proper context can it provide lessons that can
empower us to work for fundamental changes in our society that ultimately can
benefit us all.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             268 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            November 21, 2008 Friday

Bennellick warmed up and ready for action

BYLINE: PENINSULA LEAGUE PREMIER DIVISION

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 671 words


Player-manager Jamie Bennellick stands by for a rare start when Dartmouth AFC
visit Falmouth Town tomorrow in the Premier Division of the Carlsberg South West
Peninsula League.

He did treat himself to a run-out in this week's rearranged first round
Westinsure St Lukes Bowl tie in which the South Hams club lost 5-2 in extra time
against Elmore Town from the Toolstation Western League.

But it lasted only 45 minutes before Bennellick substituted himself at half-time
having started in midfield surrounded by a mixture of reserve and third team
players with the exception of first teamers Chris Harrity, Tom Comyn and
two-goal Robbie Bowker.

"In the circumstances, we did brilliantly to take the game into extra time,"
said Bennellick.

"However, the idea of giving most of the first team a rest hasn't worked out as
I'd planned. We still have a few injuries, and I'm having to include myself in
the squad."

Simon Lewcock (groin), Andy Widdicombe (hamstring) and Jon Rimmer are the
definite non-starters, with Rimmer staying at home while his wife is close to
having a baby.

And former Totnes & Dartington SC and Newton Abbot central defender Richard
Farkins is a fellow non-starter, despite making his debut in central defence
against Elmore following his recent move from Exmouth Town.

"It's a shame to be down to the bare bones, because we've been in cracking form
of late," said Bennellick.

"We beat St Blazey 4-1 in our last league game, and there's a sense of
togetherness flowing right through the club at the moment."

That sense of togetherness within Longcross is also behind Dartmouth's
reluctance to dip into their Reserve team pool so as to supplement the first
team squad .

"They have a Herald Cup quarter-final against Totnes and Dartington Reserves, so
it's important we don't disrupt them too much. After all, we want all our sides
to be challenging for trophies this season, not just the first team," said
Bennellick.

One of tomorrow's likely changes would see Comyn restored up front after three
matches in the heart of the defence while covering for injuries.

"He's been magnificent, but we may have to move him back up front," hinted
Bennellick.

Last week's three points restored Dartmouth among the championship favourites
having moved up to third in the table, a point behind second-placed Buckland
with two games in hand.

Bodmin remain the team to catch however, with a five point lead over Dartmouth
and a match in hand.

NEWTON Abbot Spurs entertain Launceston at the Recreation Ground having had an
unexpected week's break after last Saturday's game at Holsworthy was postopned.

Striker Gary Byrne and midfielder Scott McArthur were reassigned to the Reserves
in their 5-2 win at Chagford in the Premier Division of the South Devon League,
but the remainder of the squad were able to put their feet up.

Not that it's helped midfielder Nick Cousins in any way, for he's begun a three
game suspension. Or centre-half Kevin Dadd, who is unavailable.

On the plus side, Shaun Woodward has been given an extra week to get over an
abdominal strain, and Dave Pooley is also available having missed Spurs' last
game a fortnight ago when they lost 3-1 at Falmouth.

Spurs, in fact, have rarely got the better of Cornish sides this season, having
also lost their first clash against Launceston in a midweek game on the
Industrial Estate at Pennygillam earlier in the campaign.

"We played better in the second half, but I was just glad to get out of there
alive after going 3-0 down early on," recalled manager Chris Breslan.

"They ran riot with us for a time, and were one of the best sides we've played.
I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, but our performance should tell me
if we've moved on or not."

BUCKLAND Athletic aren't back in action until Tuesday when they entertain
Torpoint Athletic at Homers Heath (7.30).

In the meantime, the remainder of tomorrow's Premier Division programme takes
Liskeard Athletic to Ivybridge Town, Holsworthy to Plymouth Parkway, Tavistock
to Wadebridge Town and Saltash United to Witheridge.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                             269 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Modi coal moment

BYLINE: RADHIKA RAMASESHAN

LENGTH: 795  words


New Delhi, Jan. 8: Margaret Thatcher had her "moment" 30 years ago with coal.
Some believe Narendra Modi had his "Thatcher moment" yesterday.

Hours after minister Piyush Goyal and representatives of five big unions
announced the end of the two-day strike at Coal India late last night, officials
this morning pasted on social media sites the headline from a
BloombergBusiness.com report that said: "Modi Passes Thatcher Test as Indian
Coal Union Strike Ends".

Since the strike began on Tuesday, the word in the ministry - which the Prime
Minister has identified as one of the hubs awaiting big-time reforms - was that
this was Modi's "Thatcher moment".

The late British Prime Minister - one of the few leaders who Modi looks up to -
had her first major face-off early on in her tenure when coal miners stopped
work.

That was in 1984-85 when the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) had obtained a
"hit list" of the mines Thatcher planned to close from Britain's 170 operating
collieries. The strike continued for a year, marked by clashes and picketing,
but Thatcher steadfastly refused to give in to the union's demands.

Eventually, an enfeebled NUM asked the workers to return to the pits as Thatcher
used the "moment" to consolidate her fiscal conservation programme. By 1994, all
mines were privatised.

Cut to this week in India. The five unions that called the strike suspected Modi
was about to do a Thatcher after his cabinet re-promulgated the coal ordinance.
The truce was arrived at only after Goyal publicly asserted that Coal India and
its ancillaries would remain untouched.

The strike was ill-timed in many ways. Modi had unspooled a slew of ordinances,
related to bills that could not be passed in the recent winter session because
of opposition in the Rajya Sabha.

The ordinances carry a message for 2015 - that Modi would press ahead with
reforms.

A political source explained the Prime Minister's approach. "For the first seven
months, Modi spent his time and political energy redeeming India's image
globally, so that the world majors take India a bit seriously and think of
putting money into it. There's a pattern to his working."

"Phase Two", the source said, "is about implementing the promises on ease of
doing business in India". "The lame-duck winter session (when no business could
be transacted in the Rajya Sabha because of the Opposition's protests and the
BJP's want of a majority in the House) did little good. But Modi didn't waste
time wringing his hands. He looked for legislative options and sought them in
ordinances and joint sessions that can be called to pass laws. "

The source said the plan was "our answer to the doubting Thomases who are still
propagating the view that unless a bill becomes an act with parliamentary
sanction, investments would not come in". "This propaganda must be answered."

Then came the coal strike. Mercifully, for the government, the news was crowded
out by the newsbreaks on a high-profile murder, communal statements by BJP MP
Sakshi Maharaj and the Paris terror attack.

However, sources admitted the coal strike sent alarm bells ringing in the power
corridors more as it came days before the curtains went up on the "Vibrant
Gujarat" business summit in Gandhinagar - billed as Modi's version of the World
Economic Forum meet in Davos.

"A strike and the collateral damage it would have caused in terms of production
and fiscal losses and the threat of power outages were the last things we
wanted," said a BJP minister.

"Vibrant Gujarat" has been tied closely to Modi's fortunes, though it wasn't as
spectacular when it premiered in 2005. That year, Modi's credentials as chief
minister were impaired by criticism over the 2002 riots. The US denied him a
visa and foreign investors were wary.

Then, Modi decided to repair his image in the best way available to him: put
business back on track, end the Hindu-Muslim polemics and make "development" the
theme of his political discourse. This year, with the US partnering the event
with UK for the first time, Modi might expect the TRPs to peak.

The coal strike might have a big dampener for another reason: its spearhead was
the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, the RSS's union. A Sangh leader was said to have
later helped break the logjam.

With the RSS on board Modi's reforms programme and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch
lying low, BJP and government sources promised 2015 as the "year of reforms".

RSS spokesperson Manmohan Vaidya recently said there was "no contradiction"
between Modi's economic agenda and the Sangh's fundamental ideological beliefs.

If "proof" of the government's intent was required, the sources pointed to
today's 366-point leap in the sensex, days after it suffered its worst crash in
six years at 856 points. Today's rebound was fuelled by Coal India shares.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             270 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Pak envoy on city visit

BYLINE: Our Special Correspondent

LENGTH: 496  words


New Delhi, March 17: Pakistan's high commissioner to India Abdul Basit will meet
Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tomorrow on a trip aimed at trying to
catalyse a thaw between New Delhi and Islamabad - routed through states like
Bengal.

Basit, who reached Calcutta today, is the second consecutive envoy from
Islamabad to come calling on the Bengal chief minister in a just over a year.
His predecessor Salman Bashir visited the city in January 2014 at the end of his
tenure here.

Trade and business relations too figure high on Basit's agenda - he addressed
the Calcutta Chamber of Commerce this evening and will speak to the MCC Chamber
of Commerce and Industry tomorrow morning.

"It is imperative that we resolve all our disputes and issues through dialogue,"
a Pakistan official said. "Both countries are democratic and federations.
Federating units have an important role to play towards promoting bilateral
relations at all levels and in all spheres."

Basit will discuss proposals to strengthen cultural and other people-to-people
relations between Bengal and Pakistan's four provinces - Punjab, Sind,
Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa - when he meets Mamata.

It is not uncommon for high commissioners posted in India to meet state chief
ministers, to discuss possible investment opportunities, cultural projects and
at times, even to build relations with key political players in this country.

At times, such visits are aimed at signaling a thaw - like the flurry of
European envoys to Gandhinagar in 2012 and 2013 to meet Prime Minister Narendra
Modi, then chief minister of Gujarat who had been shunned by Europe since the
2002 Gujarat riots.

Then US ambassador Nancy Powell visited the Gujarat capital to meet Modi in
early 2014 to end Washington's decision to treat him as a pariah - America had
denied Modi a visa in 2005.

With Mamata, Pakistan shares no such tensions - but neither are trade relations
between Pakistan and Bengal great.

But any incremental political support for talks between India and Pakistan
through such visits and meetings will not hurt Islamabad - and New Delhi may not
mind too much either.

Foreign secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar visited Islamabad earlier this month
for the first dialogue with his Pakistan counterpart in three years, eight
months after India called off talks when Basit met separatist Kashmiri leaders.

India has since quietly pulled back on that red line - Basit met Hurriyat leader
Syed Ali Shah Geelani last week to "brief him" on the India-Pakistan talks, the
Pakistan High Commission had said.

But deep differences stopped India and Pakistan, during the foreign secretary
talks, from agreeing on either an agenda or a calendar to take forward their
dialogue.

Domestic pressures are a part of the problem - underscored by a furore in India
over the release of November 2008 Mumbai attacks mastermind Zaki-ur Rehman
Lakhvi's release from jail by a court last week. Lakhvi was detained afresh the
following day by Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             271 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             July 27, 2004 Tuesday

Country-rock in a foreign country

BYLINE: Jon Campbell, Special to the Star

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. D06

LENGTH: 649 words


Is the Great Wall ready for Canadian rock and hockey?

To say that Toronto rock band the New Black is playing the Canadian card for
their upcoming China tour would be a massive understatement.

"Road hockey is a kind of informal rite of passage both in the form of growing
up and of being Canadian," said bassist/vocalist Alex Karzis. "The experience of
road hockey is uniform throughout the country. (It) is a huge cultural symbol to
Canadians."

In order to introduce a Chinese audience to both the band's country-tinged rock
'n' roll and the street-level culture of their homeland, band members will pack
hockey sticks in addition to their instruments and plan to organize road hockey
games at each of the nine stops on their November tour of China.

There will be at least one game in which nobody will yell "Car!" to stop play.
There is no traffic on the Great Wall of China, site of game No. 1 and a
cultural symbol large enough to accommodate all that road hockey represents.

It's the New Black's idea of "the ultimate Canadian publicity event" and it will
be the culmination of their now-seven-month effort to put together a China tour
- an effort that began with a Toronto Star article.

The band had already been looking for an alternative route to rock recognition
when they saw my piece on Toronto rock band By Divine Right's tour of China. "We
wanted to build a name for ourselves outside of Canada first," explained
vocalist/guitarist Damian Seguin, who contacted members of By Divine Right, the
Chinese promoters, and anyone else who might be able to provide information to
get them overseas.

"We figure, after China, we can tour anywhere."

Their timing was perfect: The promoters wrote back to say that in 10 days they
would be in Canada scouting for bands to bring to China. The band scrambled to
put a package together in preparation for a meeting at the promoters' hotel.

"We figured we'd meet in a conference room or something," recalled Karzis. "But
we actually met in their room. We sat on one bed, and they sat on the other.

"They asked us who our 'main singer' was, and I put up my hand," Karzis
continued. But Jack Lenz, the band's producer, quickly explained that the band
had four singer-songwriters.

"They looked confused, so I said, 'Like the Beatles.' They lit up: 'Oh, like the
Beatles!' It was that and the bottle of Johnny Walker Black we brought them that
sealed the deal."

While the cramped hotel-room meeting happened with a heavy helping of chance,
everything since then has been through sheer muscle.

"We've been so busy getting everything together," said Seguin. "The distribution
of the new record, the sponsorship proposals, the grant applications, the video,
the sales team, the press release ..."

"And then there's the actual playing of the music," added guitarist/vocalist Jim
Bawks.

In the meantime, a pilot for a reality show developed by the band - about, oddly
enough, being in a band - is being shopped around. But if reality TV isn't in
the cards, at least they'll always have China: A documentary crew will be along
for the ride through the most populous nation on earth.

The details of the tour have yet to be firmed up and will likely remain that way
until the band hits the stage. Already, major changes have occurred.

"We were supposed to play in a multi-city festival in September," Seguin
explained. "But the promoters told us that the government thought our music was
too dangerous, and might cause a riot. Which, to us, is both a kiss and a slap."

Evidently, the powers that be have since changed their stance, and the band is
thrilled by the prospect.

"Hearing By Divine Right talk about the crazy details of their trip, it sounded
like going up the Mekong at the turn of the century," said Seguin.

"It'll definitely make us a better band," said drummer Brad Hart.

To which keyboardist Patrick Corbett added, "Either that, or we'll never speak
to each other again."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The New Black including, from left, Jim Bawks, Brad Hart, Damian
Seguin and Alex Karzis are trying a little-used path to rock glory by touring
China.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2004 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             272 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                 Second Edition

IN BRIEF;
NEW ZEALAND Car tragedy;
BANGLADESH Workers riot;
UNITED STATES Envoy emergency;
CAMBODIA Prince returns;
AFGHANISTAN NATO troops killed

SECTION: MAI; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 283  words


A 38-year-old woman was dead and the body of a child remained trapped last night
in a car which crashed into the Whanganui River north of Wellington. There were
five people in the car when it plunged into the river at about 1.25pm. Three men
swam to safety but returned to try to free the woman and child in the car, 10m
under water.

Three people were killed and scores injured yesterday as tens of thousands of
Bangladesh garment workers rioted over low wages. Police fired live bullets and
tear gas as workers staged violent protests in Dhaka and the south-eastern city
of Chittagong, a day after South Korean company Youngone  the country's biggest
exporter  shut down all 17 of its factories after worker demonstrations.

Veteran US diplomat Richard Holbrooke, who is a special envoy on the Afghanistan
war, was in critical condition yesterday after more than 20 hours of surgery to
fix a tear in the large artery that moves blood from the heart. President Barack
Obama gave a hint of the seriousness of the situation, saying that he and First
Lady Michelle Obama were praying for Mr Holbrooke's recovery.

Prince Norodom Ranariddh, a key leader in post-civil war Cambodia, has returned
from retirement to lead the party bearing his name into the elections. Prince
Ranariddh, 68, was elected president of the Norodom Ranariddh Party at a party
congress on Saturday in the capital, Phnom Penh.

Six NATO service members were killed yesterday in an insurgent attack in
southern Afghanistan, the international alliance said. Fighting has increased in
the area as a surge of US troops have poured into Helmand and Kandahar provinces
in an attempt to push the Taliban out of its traditional strongholds.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             273 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                           September 17, 2012 Monday
                                 Second Edition

Protests shock Islamic leaders

SECTION: MAI; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 347  words


Perth's Islamic leaders have condemned the violent protests in Sydney and urged
Muslims in WA to remain calm  after an anti-Islamic film sparked demonstrations
across the world.

Islamic Council of WA spokesman Ali Chaudhry said religious leaders in Perth
were shocked and appalled by the protests.

The Islamic Council of WA and other Islamic leaders here outright condemn the
violence in Sydney, he said. We support peaceful protest but there is no need
for violence. I have spoken to many colleagues and friends and we are all
shocked, absolutely shocked, by what we are seeing.

Mr Chaudhry urged Australians not to judge the Muslim community on the actions
of a few. The actions of the violent protesters were not in line with the
teachings of Islam and example set by Prophet Mohammed, he said.

We urge the Australian  society to not judge us on the actions of a few who do
not represent the majority of Australian Muslims  just as we shouldn't judge
Australians based on the Cronulla riots.

The US-made film Innocence of Muslims mocks Prophet Mohammed and touches on
themes of homosexuality and paedophilia.

Sheikh Faizel Gaffoor, who preaches at several mosques around Perth, said he had
not seen the film but understood why people felt emotional about it.

There is a strong bond that exists between Muslims and their Prophet  we are
taught to love the Prophet so when he is disrespected, people react in the same
way as when a loved one or family member is disrespected, he said.

Some people feel if they don't react to this sort of insult that they are not
doing enough to protect the dignity of the Prophet, that they are weak Muslims.

There is no reason to feel like that. There are other ways to combat ridicule,
through dialogue and calm discussion.

Taking part in an action that encourages hatred and puts women and children at
risk is not fulfilling your rights as a Muslim.

Sheikh Gaffoor said it was important for people to remember the film was the
work of an individual, not a nation.

This film has nothing to do with the actual policies  . . . of the US
Government, he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             274 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           WestSide News (Australia)

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Things to do

SECTION: Pg. 54

LENGTH: 526  words


3 films opening this week

NEVER LET ME GO: Keira Knightley and Carey Mulligan star in this adaptation of
the eponymous novel. It follows three young people living a seemingly idyllic
life at an English boarding school, except for the fact they are clones being
raised solely to provide organs for ill people.

JUST GO WITH IT: In this romantic comedy, Adam Sandler plays a successful
plastic surgeon drawn into a farcical series of lies after his ploy of
pretending to be unhappily married to lure women backfires. He is forced to
pretend assistant Jennifer Aniston is his ex-wife.

THE LINCOLN LAWYER: Matthew McConaughey casts off his laid-back image to play
Mickey Haller, a LA criminal defence lawyer who has made a career defending
small-time crooks from the back of his Lincoln Continental sedan. That all
changes when he begins defending a wealthy playboy accused of murder. The film
is based on the best-selling Michael Connelly novel.

5 visual exhibits

POLITICAL SATIRE: If the cartoon is your favourite part of the paper, head down
to the State Library to catch Behind the Lines: The year's best cartoons 2009.
The free show ends on Sunday.

FRESH TALENT: Check out the last days of Primavera, showcasing artists under 35.
At the Museum of Contemporary Art, QUT Gardens Point, until Sunday.

FOSSIL ART: Donal Fitzpatrick's works muse on light and space. They're on
display until April 8 at the Woolloongabba Art Gallery.

IN BETWEEN: Sue Rowsell and Lexie Anderson's still-life painting exhibit,
entitled Between Ourselves, is on display at Percolator Gallery in Paddington
until Sunday.

ARTISTIC POETRY: Works by Amber Wallis are currently on display at Edwina
Corlette Gallery in New Farm. The abstract works are on show until Saturday.

5 gigs next month

MF DOOM: The mysterious US-UK hip-hop artist will don his mask on the Hi-Fi
stage on April 1. Tickets are $46.

CHERRY POPPIN' DADDIES: It'll be zoot-suit riot when these US swingers hit the
Hi-Fi on April 6. Tickets are $45.

BARRY MANILOW: On April 7, the classic crooner is performing with the Queensland
Symphony Orchestra at the Brisbane Entertainment Centre. Tickets run from $110
to $199.

JIMMY EAT WORLD: The Arizona five-piece are playing the Tivoli on April 9, with
support from The Jewel and the Falcon. Tickets are $68.90.

REGGIE WATTS: The New York comedian and musician is bringing his unique act to
the Tivoli on April 12. Tickets are $46.

5 shows worth checking out

JESS LOVE: This double bill combines high-level circus skills and comedy. Jess
Love and her acclaimed solo show combines with Baggage Carousel. From April 6 to
9 at the Judith Wright Centre.

THE UGLY ONE: A witty look at our obsessions with appearance, this performance
runs from April 6 to 23 at Metro Arts on Edward St.

THE GLORIOUS NOSEBLEED: This contemporary piece of theatre unravels a mystery
through flashbacks and absurdity. It's on at Metro Arts until April 9.

TAMA MA: Four New Zealand dancers tell a powerful autobiographical story. The
show runs until April 2 at the Powerhouse.

MACBETH: The Caledonian Theatre Company presents the Shakespearean classic at
the Powerhouse. The season runs until April 10 www.powerhouse.org.au

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: WSN


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             275 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday

SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1380  words


I find myself writing in yet again in reply to letters sent in by less tolerant
people than myself.  Wat Tyler's letter is so childish it's not worthy of reply.

I however, feel that I must reply to Colin H Duller's letter, I would like Mr
Duller to highlight where I have been rude and arrogant against anyone, bearing
in mind the disgraceful letter from Wat Tyler and the content of letters from
two or three people at most, who seek to blacken Ukip at every opportunity.

I would also say that  Mr Duller is quite mistaken to accuse the Western Daily
Pressof developing into a branch of North Wilts Ukip Party. There's only one of
the North Wilts Ukip branch writing into this paper and that's me!  I believe
that Mr Heathcliffe is a member of the Swindon branch.

It seems to me, being a regular reader of the Western Daily Press,that quite a
few people throughout the entire region write in with the same views as myself,
unlike the clique that who regularly write in trying to belittle Ukip - a party
whose members are drawn to it from the left, right and centre of the UK
population.  This much to the annoyance of that clique!

Finally, I tend recently only to write in as a response to letters from people
like Mr Duller, whose letters need to be answered.  Whilst not agreeing with
much that he writes I would never ever try to persuade the Western Daily Pressto
censor him.

Stuart Eels

Yatton Keynell, Chippenham, Wiltshire

I read in the Western Daily Pressthat Taunton Deane  have approved  a new
swimming pool for Taunton and building should start in January 2015.

What is wrong with North Somerset Council, who over the last few years have been
trying to stop the Mead Group taking over the Tropicana in Weston-super-Mare to
make it into a proper swimming pool? At least it won't cost the council any
money, unlike Taunton Deane Council. The councillors who are opposed to a new
Tropicana need to bring Weston- super-Mare into the real world and stop being so
old fashioned themselves. How many times do they need to be told that
Weston-super-Mare needs a new up to date Tropicana and the Mead Group are the
right people to do this.

On another subject, I agree with  Mike Bennett's letter in the Western Daily
Press on August 15, headlined "Make the drunkards pay for their folly." Back in
March there was a similar very good  letter in the  Western Daily Press: "Turn
firefighters' hoses on drunks."  The writer also suggested that "as well as
bouncing them off the streets, the water would also wash away the filth they
deposit" and that the action of the hose pipes would help them to sober up and
not injure them physically.

In both letters the ideas are so simple and show common sense and I am sure
would work not only for drunks but for unruly gangs who throw bricks and other
dangerous objects at the police. But I suspect the powers that be are afraid of
the "do gooders" who are more concerned for the trouble makers than the welfare
of the police and other emergency services.

Helen Capel

Winscombe, Somerset

I am totally amazed that a party was organised to celebrate the closure of The
Canberra Youth Centre in Melksham.

I'm pleased that those who attended had a great time, but I fail to see just
what there is to celebrate. I would have thought a wake would have been more
appropriate.  The closure of this centre, that has served Melksham since the
1960s, was a valuable asset to the town, and will be very sadly missed, by both
young and old.

This council-owned asset will now join the list of over 70 sites across the
county of Wiltshire that are being sold off to balance the council's books.

Councillor Terry Chivers

Independent, Melksham Without North, Whitley, Melksham, Wiltshire

The revelation that 50 per cent of patients  were left with complications from
cataract operations carried out by a private healthcare company at Musgrove
Hospital in Taunton is yet another indictment of the creeping privatisation of
our public services.

The private company makes a profit if things go well but we the taxpayers pay
the piper when things go wrong! Oh, and then the NHS is left to attempt to put
right the damage done to people's eyes, which costs even more. The NHS wastes a
big part of its funding, the taxpayer loses, the poor patient loses.

This is the thin edge of a very big wedge. Privatise the profit and nationalise
the costs. Just like the bankers who took tens of billions in bonuses over many
years then went cap in hand for tens of billions of taxpayer support when they
messed up! If the Tories get back in they will break up the NHS and sell it off,
in a fire sale, to international corporate sharks, just like they did with the
Royal Mail, at a giveaway price. Not only that, they'll change the rules on
entitlement - Royal Mail is already touting the end of nationwide deliveries.

This will mean the NHS will become atomised and all the separate entities will
be run for profit; profit that will largely go abroad. Meanwhile, the contracts
will ensure that when these companies have a bill to pay for any reason, we, the
taxpayer, will be the ones paying it.

What's particularly galling is that they will use the financial difficulties of
the NHS to justify privatisation (again) after many of the most pressing
financial problems of the NHS have been precipitated by the effects of
privatisation.

This story represents a perfect microcosm of the future of the NHS under the
Tories.

Lucy Bannister

Taunton, Somerset

All hail, online correspondent Free2opine! (sorry you haven't got a real name) -
Saviour of the Natural World.

I won't go into your unsubstantiated slur on  "green" thinkers but I will
question your view that "Without man's intervention, forests grow spindly and
overcrowded, weeds and pests proliferate, top predators run riot, biodiversity
diminishes, habitats shrink, variety is lost, species weaken and grow more
vulnerable to any number of vile diseases".

I hope you didn't learn that at agricultural college?  Have you ever heard of
rainforests - the last bastion, albeit seriously under threat, of man's
non-intervention? There is no greater diversity to be found and there is no
master predator to be found there.

Have you seen what happens when man interferes, intervenes? Hardwood plundered
for your garden furniture, monoculture follows - soya or palm oil trees, nothing
else.

Short-lived glut followed by erosion, depleted soils, quick profit, less of a
sponge to process our noxious carbon dioxide back in to oxygen. It has been the
same in our "developed" western world too. All is green but all is a sterile
monoculture. We can manage our remaining wild spaces with limited intervention -
why not have a read, Free2opine? Perhaps it might become clear that the "top
predators that run riot"  are us, man, the very ones you proclaim as our
saviours!

David Burnell

Taunton, Somerset

While I totally agree that the activities of serial paedophiles like Jimmy
Savile and Rolf Harris, priests and others should be investigated, I am coming
to the conclusion that the whole business is getting completely out of hand.

Unfortunately, I think some 'victims' have seized upon the current witch-hunt as
an opportunity to extract compensation .

I am reminded of the old story of the young woman who walked into a police
station on a Wednesday and complained that she had been sexually assaulted the
previous Saturday.  When asked why she had waited so long to report the
incident, she replied that she didn't know his cheque had bounced until that
morning!

The police must apply some common sense and rationale when investigating
historical claims of abuse and the names of the accused should be withheld until
there is enough evidence to support the allegations against them.

Robert Readman

Bournemouth, Dorset

I write in reply to Jeremy Bell's biased history of Israel since its formation.

I have no idea why Mr Attlee decided to create the Israeli state after the
Second World War. Perhaps it was because of so many displaced Jews from Hitler's
Germany and Stalin's  Russia. Nevertheless, it has always been the spiritual
home of the Jewish people.

However, since its formation there has been a number of times when the Israelis
have had to defend themselves against nations who tried to annihilate it. Enough
said.

G J Cleaver

Whitminster

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                             276 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           November 3, 2007, Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Bring on the Town Hall FLAMENCO;
MAIN FEATURE VICTORIA FARNCOMBE discovers the Town Hall is the perfect place for
flamenco dancing

BYLINE: VICTORIA FARNCOMBE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1628 words


It was 14 years ago that flamenco dancer Ana Garcia saw her idol Eva La
Yerbabuena perform on Birmingham's Town Hall stage.

Even today the Spanish mother can still recall the excitement of that night.

In love with a Brummie man, in love with her new hometown, it was one of those
magical evenings she'll never forget.

"Eva was in the early stages of her career and she was so young and so fresh,"
says Ana. "The Town Hall was just the perfect venue for her. It was something
very special, something I'll never forget. I felt very much at home."

These days, the 37-year-old senorita is less starry-eyed about Birmingham having
divorced the man she moved here for.

Homesick for her hometown of Valdepenas, 200km south of Madrid, she only stays
in Sutton Coldfield for her two daughters, aged nine and seven - bonafide
Brummies with accents to boot.

But her love affair with the Town Hall never ended.

So when she heard the historic building was reopening, she knew she wanted to
bring flamenco back to its stage.

"I was so excited, I rang up Richard Hadley who markets my shows and said, 'we
have to do something, now!'"

The result is the most exciting, ambitious flamenco festival that Birmingham has
ever seen.

Spread over three days, Emocion is a celebration of the centuries' old dance
form taking in the classical, the contemporary and the fusion.

Day two sees the world famous Los Arrieritos company - regarded as the best in
the world - perform its award-winning spectacle 13 Rosas, a powerful show about
13 women caught up in the Spanish civil war.

It's a coup for Birmingham and a proud moment for Ana who hopes this year's
event will be so successful it becomes annual.

"I'm sick of good Flamenco only going to London," huffs Ana who, as well as
running dance classes and performing, has been responsible for just about every
flamenco show that's hit the city in the last decade.

"It's very important to show the Birmingham audiences what flamenco is about and
how it has changed."

There's even more to this festival than performances though and it's for this
reason I'm meeting Ana today.

Keen to convert even more people to her beloved flamenco the evangelical Ana is
running a series of workshops throughout Emocion where ordinary Brummies can try
their hands at the disciplines of guitar playing, hand clapping and, of course,
dancing.

So I've volunteered to try out one of the weekly dance classes Ana hosts at the
Dance Workshop in Moseley for a taste of what to expect.

There's just the slightest drawback. I'm "with child". Only speed dating and
wine tasting would be more inappropriate features for pregnant journalists to
undertake.

Contemplating the challenge ahead I decide I'd best keep my strength up with a
cup of tea and a cranberry cupcake from the dance studio's entrance cafe.

I'm mid muffin when Ana breezes in to the cafe, 'Ola'-ing all the staff and
spotting me straightaway. With pale, freckled skin and blue eyes, she's more
Irish colleen than Spanish senorita and I'm slightly disappointed that she's not
wearing a red flower in her hair.

But her mannerisms are pleasingly Latino. Settling down in the chair opposite
me, shrugging off her leather jacket, she flaps away my offer of coffee and
tilts her head. "So what do you want to know?" I ask her how her love affair
with flamenco began.

"When I was little my father liked to listen to flamenco," she recalls. "I just
remember sitting in my dad's car and I listened to it and I thought, 'wow,
that's so nice'. I fell in love with the music."

"Then, I used to go dancing - ballet and classical - and across the hall, I saw
these Flamenco dancers. They looked so colourful, so exciting. I wanted to be a
part of it."

Her conservative parents, still recovering from the Spanish civil war, were
reluctant for their daughter to try the dancing which, with its gypsy roots, was
then considered a lower class art form.

"But I was very persistent," giggles Ana.

Talking to her today, I don't think you could find anyone more passionate about
flamenco. Ask her what makes it so special and her whole body changes. She leans
forward, eyes alight and only just falls short of gripping your arms in earnest.

"Flamenco is for everybody. It's gone through every type of social class. It's
enjoyed by the guy who sweeps the floor and the guy with the big career.

"There's flamenco everywhere, wherever you go in the world, in Japan it's
massive, in Australia, everywhere!"

Warming to her subject, she adds: "It's more than an art form, it's like a
philosophy, a way of life. It makes you understand your emotions, your feelings.

"Over the years I have taught people flamenco and they tell me it has changed
their life.

They say, 'I feel much more confident'. They have made huge decisions that they
would never have made . . ."

Ana's flow is interrupted by the door opening and the class's two accompanying
guitarists entering the cafe.

Realising it's nearly time, she leaves me to chat to the other class members
while she runs upstairs to set up and slip a long, black skirt over her brown
tracksuit.

Meanwhile, I sidle up to friends Alison and Lisa who met at belly dancing
classes before deciding to give flamenco a try.

"It's hard," says Alison. "We've only been coming two weeks and we are still a
bit out of our depth."

"But it's great for getting out aggression," adds Lisa, "all that stamping
around!"

Anyone who's ever been to a dance class will know there are two universal
truths: One, the good dancers who have grasped all the tricky moves always stand
at the front, near the teacher, while the rest of us fight for the back corner
spots.

And two, there's always one class member who looks like they've ended up in the
wrong room and don't know how to extract themselves politely.

In this case it's an older gentleman, shuffling at the back and looking
inconspicuous in suit trousers, a purple shirt and grey waistcoat.

Not that I can talk: My leggings and smock top with flat, black boots
combination is looking decidedly unsuitable next to all the flouncy skirts and
high-heeled shoes.

"Okay," claps Ana, "Let's go. Arms first."

Five minutes later I'm starting to feel quietly confident as I easily keep up
with the upper limb exercises. It's often touted at family gatherings that my
mother's Irish ancestors turned up in Cork via the Spanish Armada so perhaps
this is just my innate talent coming to the fore.

Then Ana introduces the hand movements. It's a bit like that trick where you pat
your head and circle your stomach at the same time.

Hmmm. Maybe my forefathers just formed part of the Armada welcome party.

"Chick chick chick chick chick-en," sings Ana at us, diving about the room to
adjust flapping elbows and claw-like fingers.

By the time we've thrown in the foot moves, I've given up my plan to quit
journalism and seek my fortune in Barcelona. Who knew stamping and arm twirling
could be this difficult?

But even though I'm hopeless, the class is a riot, with us clod-footed Brits
grinning apologetically at each other but with a mad glint in our eyes that
says, 'look at us - we're doing flamenco'!

The live music also gives it an extra dimension with Ana having to curtail the
guitarists every time they get carried away strumming their pulsating beats.

Noticing my red, panting face and worried expression, Ana stops the class to
make sure I haven't gone into labour.

"Are you used to exercising?" she asks. "Maybe you should miss out the footwork.
We don't want the baby coming now!"

And then she's off again, proudly puffing out her chest, picking up her skirt
and quite clearly loving every minute of it.

At the end of the class, her eyes shining, this one-woman missionary beams round
the room at her subjects.

She told me earlier that she gets a special thrill out of seeing the fiery
Latino spirit come out in reserved Brummies.

"I try to teach them to forget they are British so they don't feel shy and they
are able to express themselves," she said.

"That's maybe why they like it so much. It's something lacking in your culture.
When I teach them I can see their personalities coming out."

Like Mohammed and the mountain, Ana has not been able to return home so she has
dedicated her life to bringing her culture to Birmingham.

And we're lucky to have such a passionate, determined advocate.

It may be giving her sleepless nights but, if Emocion is a success, it will be
the biggest flamenco festival in the UK, outside of London.

"When I put on a show I feel really privileged that if it wasn't for me none of
these people would be in this room," explained Ana.

"It's very rewarding. It's not a financial reward - I never make any money. It's
personal satisfaction. It's the sense of sharing it. I like to share it and
bring it over," she added.

Programme of events for Emocion Flamenco Festival - A Passionate Weekend of
Dance, Music and Voice. Town Hall Birmingham, November 9-11.

November 9

Classic performance: Pepa Molina and Company open the weekend with a raw and
passionate performance. One of the leading teachers at the prestigious Amor de
Dios Flamenco School in Madrid, Pepa and the rising stars of the new generation
of Flamenco, have been described as "bold" and "original" in the Spanish press.

November 10

Contemporary performance: Los Arrieritos present 13 Rosas, a powerful and
inspiring show about 13 women caught up in war, which has scooped top awards in
Spain and Europe. Workshops: 11am-12noon: Cajon and Clapping; 12-1pm: Flamenco
guitar.

November 11

Fusion performance: El Ultimo Tango and Soloists sees Pepa Molino and soloists
return for a second show of joyful movement, reinterpreting Argentina's classic
dance form through flamenco eyes and ears. Also featuring star tango singer
Guillermo Rozenthuler and a company of tango dancers.

Workshops: 11am-12noon and 12.15pm-1.15pm: Flamenco dancing

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flamenco artist Pepa Molina, who is performing at the festival; The
award-winning 13 Rosas Show, featuring flamenco and contemporary Spanish
dancers; Pepa Molina, a renowned Spanish flamenco artist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             277 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                          December 19, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pick of the day

SECTION: CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR;FEATURES; Pg. 52,53

LENGTH: 239 words


Mrs Brown's Boys (9.30xpm) A hypnotist is booked to provide the entertainment at
the triplets' baptism - and Agnes soon finds herself under his spell. Meanwhile,
the matriarch's kitchen is falling apart - but that turns out to be the least of
her problems when son Mark delivers some heartbreaking news.;

Charlie Brooker's 2012 Wipe (10.00pm) The broadcaster takes a satirical look
back at the events of the past 12 months, including the Olympic Games, the
Queen's Diamond Jubilee, the jailing of members of Russian punk group Pussy Riot
and the US presidential election.;

Gary Barlow & Friends (9.00pm) The singer-songwriter performs in a one-off
musical spectacular at Manchester Apollo. Comedian Peter Kay, actor James
Corden, Take That bandmate Mark Owen, pop group JLS and fellow X Factor judge
Nicole Scherzinger all join in the fun in front of a sell-out audience.;

Celebrity Deal or No Deal (6.30pm) Joan Collins battles the Banker and tries to
guess the values of mystery boxes in an attempt to win up to £250,000 for her
chosen charity. The actress is joined by friends, family and some familiar faces
- Glynis Barber, Michael Brandon, Emma Samms, Helen Lederer and Lisa Maxwell.;

World's Strongest Man 2012 (8.00pm) James Richardson presents action from the
final in Los Angeles, California, where the 10 competitors to have progressed
from their respective qualifying heats battled for the title. With interviews by
Bill Kazmaier.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2012 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             278 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Give us your views on the riots that hit Birmingham;
views

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 399 words


IN AUGUST, rioters tore through Birmingham causing damage to shops, buildings,
businesses and homes.

The Riots Communities and Victims Panel was set up by the Deputy Prime Minister
in response. Our job is to look at the reasons why they happened and to see what
could have been done differently to prevent them from happening, both now and in
the future.

We have recently published our interim report, '5 days in August', which sets
out our initial findings since our work began in the middle of September.

Since then, we have been travelling the country and have spoken with thousands
of people.

On our visit to Birmingham we heard from shopkeepers, local residents and
community organisations who shared their views and experiences of the riots with
us. We met the editor of the Birmingham Mail where we heard about the excellent
work the paper has done in helping to bring rioters to justice.

We also held an open public meeting to make sure everyone had the opportunity to
have their voice heard.

In Birmingham alone, there were 363 recorded crimes over the five days of
rioting.

By directly engaging with individuals in affected communities, we were able to
build a picture as to why the riots might have happened. We spoke to communities
and victims and heard how 'young people are angry. Violence was the quick
answer' and it was an 'excuse to be noticed'.

We also heard the perspective of those who were involved in the riots who
described the scenes as being 'like a zombie movie' and a 'chance to make
history'.

However, the causes and motivations behind the riots are complex. Our report
shows that there seems to be a link between deprivation and rioting, that a lack
of hopes and dreams amongst young people seems to make them feel that they have
no stake in society and that the failure of basic values may have contributed to
the situation.

But these are just our initial findings. We want to know what you think the
reasons were for the riots that swept across the country.

Read our report and let us know what you think. All views will be listened to
and will shape the recommendations of our final report which is due out in March
next year. Get in touch with the Panel by emailing
riotspanel@communities.gsi.gov.uk or on twitter - @ riotspanel. Our interim
report can be read on the website www.5daysinaugust.co.uk.

Rosie Jones, Riots Communities and Victims Panel

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             279 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           November 20, 2010 Saturday

US report indicts Gujarat for slow prosecution in riot cases

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 394 words


AHMEDABAD: The United States gave high marks to the ruling United Progressive
Alliance (UPA) government on religious freedom but continued concern about the
Gujarat government's failure to arrest those responsible for the communal
violence in 2002 that killed over 1,200 persons, majority of them Muslims.

The state department, in its annual report on international religious freedom
released here Wednesday by secretary of state Hillary Clinton, had a list of
recommendations exclusive to Gujarat. Among these, it said that the US
government urge the Indian government to "ensure that any efforts to bring a
case against Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi are allowed to proceed in
accordance with the law" and the government should "continue to pursue,
investigate, and lay charges against any individuals responsible for the deaths
at Godhra, and the perpetrators of the killings, sexual violence, and arson in
Gujarat in 2002". It urged the Supreme Court to look into allegations of its
Special Investigative Team's having disregarded evidence. It asked the centre to
send an investigative team to assess the security of individuals displaced in
the riots.

It said, "Chief minister Modi has been re-elected twice since the riots. Court
convictions of alleged perpetrators of the Gujarat riots are rare, due to the
slow pace of prosecutions, the lack of evidence, insufficient effort by local
police officials, or a combination of the three. Since there were many
eyewitnesses to the attacks, the low number of convictions suggests endemic
impediments to justice continue to exist within the police, the judiciary, and
the state government apparatus".

Referring to the International Religious Freedom Act (IRFA) it says the act bars
"admission to the United States of aliens who were "responsible for or directly
carried outâ(EURO)¦particularly severe violations of religious freedom". "This
provision has been invoked only once: in March 2005, it was used to exclude
chief minister Narendra Modi of Gujarat due to his complicity in the 2002 riots
that resulted in the deaths of an estimated 1,100 to 2,000 Muslims".

The report chronicles the developments right from the complaint filed by Zakia
Jafri, widow of slain ex-Congress MP Ahsan Jafri against Modi and 62 others, to
the SIT questioning Modi for 10 hours in this case.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             280 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday

Pre-trial argument against Congress in US court on Sept 21

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 236 words


CHANDIGARH: A New York court has issued orders setting the date for pre-trial
oral arguments in the case against Congress for its alleged role in November
1984 anti-Sikh riots, US-based Sikhs for Justice has reported.

In a statement to media offices, SFJ said Judge Robert W Sweet of the US federal
court for the southern district of New York has fixed September 21 for pre-trial
oral arguments in the case. On March 1, a US federal court had issued summons
against Congress party for ``conspiring, aiding, abetting and carrying out
organized attacks on Sikh population of India in November 1984''.

Attorney Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, legal adviser to Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), said
the petitioners would present evidence in the court ``showing how Congress party
planned and organized killing of Sikhs throughout India during November 1984 and
how it covered the organized and systematic violence against Sikhs, depicted it
as anti-Sikh riots of Delhi, and how the killers of Sikhs were being protected
by the Congress party for the last 26 years''.

SFJ had filed the case along with several Sikh individuals from India who
witnessed and survived attacks in November 1984. The class action lawsuit (SFJ
v. Congress (I) SDNY (10 CV 2940)) has been filed under Alien Tort Claims Act
(ATCA) and Torture Victim Protection Act (TVPA) and the petitioners have asked
for a jury trial, Pannun said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             281 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                             JANE'S DEFENCE WEEKLY

                           August 17, 2005, Wednesday

UZBEKISTAN DECIDES TO DENY USE OF AIRBASE BY US FORCES

BYLINE: BY JOSHUA KUCERA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 1

LENGTH: 96 words


US operations in Afghanistan will be more difficult and costly after
Uzbekistan's decision to deny US use of Karshi-Khanabad (K2) airbase following
US displeasure at massacre of protesters in Andijon; US defense officials say
this will not seriously affect US ability to work in Central Asia; missions
conducted from K2 will have to be spread among other facilities in region such
as Bagram and Kandahar airbases in Afghanistan and Manas in Kyrgyzstan; decision
highlights split within U S government over preference for human rights over
military exigencies (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  JDW

              Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             282 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                            October 09, 2011 Sunday

Your Views

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 723 words


Humans much more than 'simply' animals

In a letter ("Blame flash riots on Darwinist philosophy," Oct. 1), Theodore H.
Loy included the remark that "According to (Darwinist) philosophy, we are all
simply animals." This statement is untrue, because of "simply." Animals we
certainly are, but so much more.

To begin with, as an ardent follower of Jesus, I see evolution from microbe to
me as a way - probably "the" way - that his father chose to create us. Jesus,
his son, saw our physical and spiritual world in terms of growing, evolving
things - vines, mustard seeds, fig trees, flowers of the field.

As a liberal, I believe we grow, develop and evolve by making spiritual choices.
If a flash "riot" occurs, responsible individuals choose to make it a creative
gathering or a destructive riot - unrelated to whether schools' teach
"evolution."

Not "simply" animals, but evolving humans, we are evolving towards loving God
more.

Secondly, it misinterprets evolution to say humans act without purpose and
meaning. Human words and actions express often-unseen human purposes and
meanings.

Let us, however, avoid misinterpreting the meaning of life into simplified
bumper-sticker slogans. Most individuals - I believe - live lives with
principles of caring, appreciative - and constantly evolving - purposes.

Third, writers ought not to over-simplify, like condemning people who hold to
evolution as acting without "meaning or purpose." Many of us believe in Jesus
while easily believing also in God's profound loving that created the
evolutionary process these billions of years.

Meaning and purpose appear in both Scripture and divinely guided evolution,
uniting two mutually enriching sources of truth and faith.

Joris Heise

Waynesville

Time for United States to end death penalty

As a Georgia man, Troy Davis, was laid to rest last weekend, I could not help
but feel proud as an Illinoisan that we were able to abolish the death penalty
earlier this year.

However, I believe, as Americans, we should feel sad and embarrassed that we
still allow executions to take place in our great country.

First, there is the problem of wrongful convictions. One-hundred-thirty-eight
people have been found innocent while on death row in the United States since
1973. Illinois produced 20 of those 138, second only to Florida.

I would argue that executing one person for a crime they did not commit is too
many. If that person was your husband, son, father or brother, you would
probably agree.

Secondly, the death sentence does not act as a deterrent to murder. Over the
past 20 years, the murder rates in states that use the death sentence are over
30 percent higher than states that do not use it. If it is not preventing
murders from occurring, what purpose does it serve?

Finally, there is the issue of money. While the actual figures vary from state
to state, one constant remains. Capital cases cost significantly more than life
without parole cases in every single state. While we continue to fight this
recession, states could save millions by simply abolishing the death penalty.

Illinois became the 16th state to end the death penalty earlier this year. It is
never too late for the others to help end the embarrassment.

Steve Gonigam

Normal

Why are we aborting these gifts from God?

Earlier this year, a news story had a powerful message about love and
acceptance. Two of the three prom queen candidates at the public high school in
Fair Grove, Mo., persuaded the entire school to vote for their competitor,
19-year-old Maisie Garoutte, a student with Down syndrome.

Maisie was crowned on April 30. Her teacher said that Maisie had won the hearts
of fellow students and described Maisie as "the sweetest person imaginable."

Generally speaking, Down syndrome children are full of love, sweetness and
happiness. Don't we all need more love, sweetness and happiness in this
sometimes bleak and cruel world of ours?

Why on Earth, then, are we aborting over 90 percent of these very special gifts
from God when a pregnant woman receives a Down syndrome diagnosis? Is it because
they are not perfect? Who among us is perfect?

Robin Reinhart

Buckley

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Pantagraph


                             283 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

Riots unfortunate, won't recur, Narendra Modi told EU envoys

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 648 words


NEW DELHI: German ambassador Michael Steiner on Friday declared that the
European Union has ended its boycott of Narendra Modi in what marked a big step
towards ending the diplomatic isolation the Gujarat chief minister has faced
since the 2002 communal riots.

The statement came a day after EU's ambassador to India Joao Cravinho announced
the group's intention to engage with Modi. With the UK having already reached
out to Modi, the US remains the only missing piece in a full scale diplomatic
embrace of the BJP leader who has emerged as a strong contender for the party's
PM nomination. China and Japan never shunned Modi largely because of the
business potential of Gujarat.

As reported on Friday, European envoys met Modi over lunch in January to discuss
certain issues, including accountability for the 2002 riots. It is learnt that
Modi described the riots as "unfortunate". He is said to have also assured them
that something like that is never likely to happen again. Although this fell far
short of the apology that he has been asked to submit for the riots, the regret
may facilitate the process of re-engagement with the a bloc which has set tough
thresholds on issued like inter-faith harmony, human rights, environment and
other concerns.

It is also learnt that Modi said all the "right things'' in the meeting,
including that he was all for an "inclusive approach'' in the governance of the
country. Modi also said that he would respect any verdict of the judiciary.

Taking off from where Cravinho left, Steiner, who hosted the lunch for Modi,
said the EU respected India's democratic institutions, its election results and
also had full faith in India's judicial system.

"Because of this respect and trust, we are now in a new phase," Steiner said,
adding that even the Indian people will like this respect. "We had said that we
would take a fresh look at the issue after the Gujarat elections and that is
what we are doing when we talk to him directly,'' he said, refusing to
elaborate.

In reaching out to Modi, the EU has followed in the footsteps of countries like
the UK and Japan, who have been looking to ramp up their economic engagement
with Gujarat. For Modi, of course, it means yet another significant endorsement
in the run up to the 2014 parliamentary elections.

The EU apparently felt that this was the right time to engage with Modi as he
had again proved that the people of Gujarat supported him and his developmental
agenda. The invitation to Modi for a meeting with the envoys was extended to him
days after the polling in Gujarat and before the results were out. The EU
already looks upon him as a national player. The issue of his emerging as a
probable prime ministerial candidate for BJP was not discussed at the meeting.

Asked if the EU, which has boycotted Modi for over 10 years since the riots, was
softening, Cravinho had said, "Some months ago, there was end of one part of
judicial process which shows that justice in India may be slow but it produces
results. And that has helped to look towards closure of what everybody agrees is
very terrible set of events''.

That is a fig leaf for the volte-face the Europeans have effected in the decade
after they banned Modi from travelling to Europe following the riots. The US had
sent a business and official team to the CM's biennial jamboree, Vibrant
Gujarat, last month and the expectation was that this would pave the way for the
ultimate US acceptance.

However, with a new Obama administration taking shape in Washington,
particularly a new State Department under the new Secretary of State John Kerry,
it is unlikely a US decision will be made anytime soon. Certainly not before
some key personnel changes have been made in the State Department. Sources
indicated that a change of heart in Washington was well on its way, though it is
unlikely to happen this year.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             284 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 5, 2013 Thursday

1984 anti-Sikh riots: US court summons Sonia Gandhi

BYLINE: IP Singh

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 332 words


JALANDHAR: On a complaint by a Sikh group, a US federal court has issued summons
against Congress party president Sonia Gandhi for shielding party officials
allegedly involved in inciting attacks on Sikhs in November 1984.

A class action suit against Sonia Gandhi has been filed by "Sikhs for Justice"
(SFJ), a US-based human rights group, along with victims of 1984 anti-Sikh
violence under Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA) and Torture Victim Protection Act
(TVPA). In the September 3 lawsuit filed before Eastern District of New York (13
CV 4920), SFJ and victims are seeking compensatory and punitive damages against
Congress party president for her role in shielding and protecting Kamal Nath,
Sajjan Kumar, Jagdish Tytler and other Congress party leaders from being
prosecuted for their crimes against humanity. The complaint has also cited
discovery of mass grave at Hondh Chillar village of Haryana in February 2011 to
drive home the point that it showed that cover up continued for all these years.

The 27-page complaint against Gandhi alleges that between November 1 and 4, 1984
about 30,000 members of the Sikh community "were intentionally tortured, raped
and murdered by groups that were incited, organized, controlled and armed" by
the ruling Congress party.

According to attorney Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, legal advisor to SFJ, the lawsuit
against Sonia Gandhi under the ATCA and TVPA is motivated by an interest in
seeking some form of justice for the victims of November 1984 massacre, will
raise awareness to the international community regarding denial of justice to
the victims and is a mean of holding parties in power accountable for their
gross violations of human rights - while also offering the potential to deter
future abuses. He argued that Sonia Gandhi's conduct of protecting the
perpetrators of November 1984 massacre gave rise to liability under applicable
international and domestic laws, international treaties and federal common law.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             285 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 5, 2013 Thursday

1984 anti-Sikh riots: US court summons for Sonia Gandhi

BYLINE: IP Singh & Chidanand Rajghatta

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 465 words


JALANDHAR/WASHINGTON: Respectful of her privacy, the media may have given Sonia
Gandhi a wide berth on her private trip to the US for medical treatment, but a
Sikh group wants to serve court summons on the Congress president for shielding
party officials allegedly involved in the November 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

The US-based rights group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) had hired a process service
company to track down Gandhi, who is currently believed to be in the US for
medical check-up, in order to serve on her summons issued by the US Eastern
District Court of New York in connection with a civil action case.

In a lawsuit resulting in the September 3 summons, SFJ and victims are seeking
compensatory and punitive damages against Gandhi for her role in "shielding and
protecting Union Cabinet minister Kamal Nath, Jagdish Tytler and other Congress
leaders from being prosecuted for their crimes against humanity". The complaint
has also cited discovery of mass grave at Hondh Chillar village of Haryana in
February 2011 to drive home the point that a cover up continued for all these
years.

Under US process, the plaintiff has120 days to serve summons, after which the
defendant has 21 days to respond. SFJ activists indicated they are aware Gandhi
is in the US, most likely in New York City, but appeared uncertain about how to
serve the summons.

"We have some idea where she is staying but she has already got the tip that
there are summons out for her," SFJ legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun told
TOI, explaining the idea behind hiring a process server. Even if they failed to
serve the summons on her personally, there were two other options, he said:
Serving it at the office of the Overseas Indian National Congress, or at the
party headquarters in New Delhi.

Pannum said the lawsuit against Gandhi under the Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA)
and the Torture Victim Protection Act (TVP) "is motivated by an interest in
seeking some form of justice for the victims of November 1984 Sikh genocide and
raise awareness in the international community regarding denial of justice to
the victims, and deterring future abuses". Congress party partisans believe the
lawsuit is a frivolous attempt to gain publicity.

On its Facebook page, SFJ changed its cover photo to one of Sonia Gandhi under
the caption "US Courts are looking for you".

"Sonia Gandhi is in the US and believes because she's there on a medical visit,
she is immune from any legal action. Well Gandhi, I got news for you... SFJ will
come after you when you're healthy, SFJ will come after you when you're sick,
SFJ will come after you and anyone else, if they've ever participated in the
killing of innocent Sikhs or provide protection for those who murdered innocent
Sikhs!" the text below it read.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             286 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

1984 Sikh riots: US judge orders hospital staff, security agents to deliver
summons to Sonia Gandhi

BYLINE: IP Singh

SECTION: US & CANADA NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


JALANDHAR: A Sikh rights group has obtained an order from a US federal judge for
delivery of summons to Congress party president Sonia Gandhi, who is in New York
for medical treatment, through hospital staff or security personnel assigned to
her, including special agents of the US Secret Service and FBI.

The order was handed out by judge Brain M Cogan in a class action suit against
Sonia Gandhi filed on September 3 by US-based rights group Sikhs For Justice
along with some victims of the November 1984 anti-Sikh massacre under the Alien
Tort Claims Act (ATCA) and Torture Victim Protection Act (TVPA) for her role in
shielding Congress leaders allegedly involved in inciting attacks on Sikhs in
November 1984.

Earlier, the Eastern District Court of New York (13 CV 4920) had served summons
to Sonia Gandhi on September 3.

The group, which had 120 days to deliver the summons and complaint to Sonia
Gandhi, on Monday obtained ex parte orders from Judge Cogan for service of
summons to the Congress president through the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer, where she is believed to be under medical care, or her security detail.

The fresh order from Judge Cogan came after the Sikh rights group filed an
emergency motion with the judge for leave to effect alternative means of service
because the process servers retained to serve Gandhi could not reach her due to
her heavy security detail.

In the September 9 order, the judge directed that the summons and complaint on
Sonia Gandhi be served by delivering a copy to the hospital administration or
staff at the hospital where she is believed to be under treatment or to any of
the security agents assigned to Sonia Gandhi during her stay in New York,
including the US State Department detail, special agents of the Secret Service,
special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, officers of the NY State
Police, officers of NYPD and members of any private security details. The
judge's order further directs the hospital and security staff to give summons
and complaint to Sonia Gandhi.

SFJ filed the motion contending that Sonia Gandhi was a foreigner and a high
profile political figure and was the subject of heavy security. "The personal
service of summons as required by section§308(1), (2), (4) of CPLR is
impracticable and plaintiffs be granted permission to effect service through
alternate means," its motion said.

The groups's legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun said, "The latest order of
the court directing the members of US security agencies who are deputed with
Sonia Gandhi while she is in US for medical treatment to give the summons and
complaint to the Congress president is a clear message to those who believe that
they could evade US court summons by virtue of their high political positions".

"This underlines the difference between the justice delivery system of India and
US," he added.

In the lawsuit filed against Sonia Gandhi, the Sikh group is seeking
compensatory and punitive damages for the victims of the 1984 riots from Sonia
Gandhi for her role in shielding Kamal Nath, Sajjan Kumar, Jagdish Tytler and
other Congress leaders who were allegedly involved in the violence.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             287 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 11, 2013 Monday

US signals greater acceptance of Modi, putting 2002 behind

BYLINE: Chidanand Rajghatta

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 819 words


WASHINGTON: The antagonistic official US view of Gujarat chief minister and BJP
prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi is gradually being tempered, seemingly
in the light of his frontrunner status to lead India. The subtle changes come
amid continuing efforts by his expatriate fan base to exculpate him for the 2002
riots.

US officials, some American lawmakers, and the country's corporate community at
large appear keen to put behind the stigma associated with the controversial
politician. They have signaled they are keen to put the 2002 issue behind, a
messaging that appears to stem from the perception that the ruling UPA
government's fortunes are in decline and that of Modi is on the upswing.

A recent Goldman Sachs report titled ''Modi-fying our view: raise India to
Marketweight'' expressing bullish sentiment on India at the prospect of the
Gujarat chief minister becoming prime minister seems has accelerated efforts to
resurrect Modi's reputation. The Goldman Sachs report, which has caused
heartburn in the UPA, isn't the first to speculate on these lines. American
lawmakers and policy planners have been primed over the past year for the return
of BJP to power at the center, with Modi possibly at the helm as Prime Minister,
following what US analysts say is a ''precipitous'' decline in the Congress
party's standing.

A September 1, 2012, report by the US Congressional Research Service (CRS), a
bipartisan and independent research wing of the US Congress that provides briefs
for American lawmakers, has already gone where Goldman Sachs is now treading:
boldly projecting a BJP resurgence. It has also forewarned Washington about the
possible elevation to the Prime Minister office of Narendra Modi, who was denied
a US visa in 2005 for his alleged complicity in the 2002 riots.

''Although still in some disorder in 2011, there are signs that the BJP has made
changes necessary to be a formidable challenger in scheduled 2014 polls. These
include a more effective branding of the party as one focused on development and
good governance rather than emotive, Hindutva-related issues,'' the 94-page
report noted.

''Among the party's likely candidates for the prime ministership in future
elections is Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi, who has overseen impressive
development successes in his state, but who is also dogged by controversy over
his alleged complicity in lethal anti-Muslim rioting there in 2002,'' the report
noted in a surprising projection, before Modi was officials declared BJP's prime
ministerial candidate. It added that Modi has in the past been denied a US visa
under an American law barring entry for foreign government officials found to be
complicit in severe violations of religious freedom.

That visa denial, US officials are now suggesting, will not apply if Modi indeed
becomes India's prime minister. Dismissing visa as a non-issue, one US official
was quoted telling PTI this week that it was largely a creation of the Indian
media and not at all an issue in the US Government.

"I think that the United States had a very strong relationship with the previous
Indian government when it was under BJP leadership," the official said. ''the
relationship between the United States and India is an enduring one, it is a
bipartisan in the United States, irrespective of who is in office. And we
believe that (in a) multiparty (system) in India that it is supported by all
political parties, we expect that relationship to continue."

The official also explained that "There is not a lot of angst about him (Modi)"
in the US Government, but the Administration has decided to maintain the status
quo on this issue because it might be seen as an interference in India's
domestic politics, with various political parties seeking to make capital out of
any decision in Washington.

But US lawmakers are not constrained by such perception issues. A day after the
Obama administration official indicated that the denial of visa to chief
minister Modi would be overturned in the event of his becoming Prime Minister,
key Republican lawmakers are reported to have invited him to address an
Indian-American community event, albeit via satellite, on Capitol Hill next
week.

The invitation comes from Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rogers, one of three US
lawmakers who visited Gujarat and met Modi earlier this year. "I want to
congratulate you on winning the nomination of the BJP for Prime Minister of
India," Rogers said in a congratulatory message to Modi, ahead of the November
19 event being billed as "Bharat (India) Day on Capitol Hill." The day-long
event is being hosted by House Republican Conference in the US House of
Representatives of which Congresswoman Rodgers is the chair, in association with
Shalabh Kumar, who is chair of the Indian-American Advisory Council, and a Modi
partisan who helped put together the India trip for US lawmakers.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             288 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                          The York Dispatch (York, PA)

                            December 4, 2001 Tuesday

'It was the shooter's show';
Witnesses detail events surrounding death of Officer Schaad and 32-year wall of
silence

BYLINE: By MIKE HOOVER and KATHY STEVENS Dispatch/Sunday News

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORT

LENGTH: 3741 words


When the armored car rumbles through the neighborhood toward the Codorus Creek
bridge, people drop onto their floors, take cover behind furniture, hide inside
abandoned houses and scramble into ditches.

The armored cars have come through before, they say, sometimes spewing gunfire
through small slits in their quarter-inch-thick metal.

Since the police started patrolling in the neighborhood a day earlier, the
armored cars have been targets of bricks, bottles and gunfire. Snipers in black
neighborhoods have bounced shots off their metal sides to rattle the police
inside.

But a group of men near the intersection of South Penn Street and West College
Avenue isn't satisfied with simple annoyance.

The word on the street is that one of the men has obtained the ultimate weapon,
a rifle so powerful it could put a stop to the armored car patrols.

Inside the car, the driver, Cpl. Sherman Warner, tells rookie Officer Henry
Schaad and Officer Ronald McCoy to be on alert because there is shooting in the
area.

Resident Wayne King Sr. yells for his wife, tells her to grab their infant son
and lie on the floor.

When the armored car passes the intersection of Penn and College, there is a
flurry of activity.

Four men step into the street from behind Sam's Cafe, facing the bridge.

One shoulders this super weapon and levels it at the armored car as it shrinks
into the distance, nearly a quarter-mile away.

Amid the pop-pop of gunfire that night, the sound of the Krag .30-40 military
rifle is distinct.

It sounds, according to King, "like a cannon."

Just reaching the bridge, the car swerves slightly. The rookie cop falls to the
floor, bleeding and calling out for help.

Back at the intersection of Penn and College, a cheer goes up.

Officer Henry C. Schaad died two weeks after he was shot, hours after telling
his family he knew he wasn't going to make it. He left behind a young wife and
daughter.

Who was involved in his shooting is not a mystery.

Investigators have known for years the names of the four men who they believe
stepped off the curb that night.

"There were people who saw it," said Thomas V. Chatman Jr., then a city police
detective. "We had eyewitnesses talk to us. They identified four people in those
days."

Chatman said he interviewed all four suspects as part of his investigation at
the time, but none made any admissions. One man is in state prison, one in
Washington, D.C., and two others in the York area, Chatman said last year.

"Everyone in the police department had an idea who they were," Chatman said.

Ken Markel, a former York County sheriff, was a state police investigator who
assisted Chatman. "I had my suspicions," he said. "I couldn't prove it."

Both said they thought there wasn't enough evidence to bring charges in the
case.

But in the next few weeks, a grand jury will meet to investigate Schaad's death
-- the same grand jury that in late April recommended 11 indictments for the
killing of Lillie Belle Allen, a black woman from South Carolina who was
murdered three days after Schaad was shot.

Prosecutors say they expect to make arrests.

For as long as investigators have known who was involved in Schaad's death, the
questions of why he was killed and why it's taken 32 years to prosecute have
been widely debated, but never answered.

Any trial of Schaad's shooters is likely to include accusations of systemic
brutality by a group of city policeman against an emerging group of York's more
militant black residents.

Accounts of beatings, maulings by city police dogs, suspicious deaths and
discrimination dating back to the early'60s are detailed in contemporary news
reports and documented in stacks of government and court records including pre-
and post-riot civil rights lawsuits highly critical of police conduct.

"Obviously, there was a clash between police and the blacks," said Tim Warfield,
who ran a York field office in 1968 for then-Gov. Raymond P. Shaffer to monitor
racial tension. Set up sometime after three days of rioting that year, the
office, which was closed in 1970, received about 25 complaints a day about
police abuse of black residents.

It's well after dark July 17, 1969, as a group of black men sit around a picnic
table at Penn Park, drinking beer, smoking weed and talking about Clifford
Green, a 12-year-old who dumped lighter fluid in his mouth, lit it on fire and
falsely blamed his injuries on a white gang, the Girarders.

A woman yells into the darkness, "Tak just got shot. He got hit by a pumpkin
ball."

Taka Nii Sweeney, 17, and John Washington, 14, are shot by a member of the
Newberry Street Boys, a white gang, near the intersection of Philadelphia Street
and North Pershing Avenue.

Those at the park believe police are responsible.

"Everybody just started talking," said Leon "Smickle" Wright, who at the time
was part of a black militant group. "We were tired of it, and things started
happening." Half a dozen men grab their guns, jump into a car and speed to North
Newberry Street, setting off a shooting war between young black men and police.

According to court documents and witness accounts, some of the men inside the
city's three armored cars were among the force's most abusive -- including
members of the K-9 unit, which had been temporarily disbanded during the riots
for fear the dogs would be killed. But there is no evidence Schaad was like
them.

"No one knew him positively or negatively," Warfield said of the rookie cop.
"Schaad just happened to be there at the time. Some folks shot at the armored
car. He got hit."

As the bullet rips through the armored car, it fragments. Schaad is hit under
the armpit; both his lungs are fatally damaged. Two bullets from other guns hit
the car and bounce off. A fourth shot misses.

McCoy administers first aid. Warner throws the armored car into the next gear
and puts his foot to the floor, heading for York Hospital.

Sherman Spells says he was standing near the man who fired the Krag.

Stephen Donald Freeland -- who Spells says he has identified to investigators as
the shooter -- had bragged he had a high-powered weapon that would take care of
police who had switched from more vulnerable police cruisers to the armored
cars.

"Hell, it [the rifle] kicked him almost on his butt," says Spells, who lived on
Stone Avenue in the Codorus Housing Project during the riots.

"The armored car swerved and everybody, more or less, cheered. You know, because
it was [Freeland's] show. He had the ultimate weapon, so he claimed, and the
thing, the way it sounded, it damn sure was."

As the armored car sped toward York Hospital, a pact was made.

"We said we would take it to the grave," Wright said. "And we will."

Spells has been interviewed twice by investigators from the York County District
Attorney's Office since May. Spells said he was shown photos of suspects who
investigators believe were there when Schaad was shot.

"I got the smoking gun and they know it," said Spells, 54, who is now in York
County Prison awaiting a hearing on a stalking charge and parole violation.
Spells has a criminal history dating back to 1970, including convictions for
aggravated assault, terroristic threats and multiple drug charges.

Freeland, 49, is in state prison on drug charges. He is expected to be released
in 2007. He has a criminal record going back to 1969, including burglary, theft,
giving police false information, firearms violations, receiving stolen property,
drug violations and simple assault.

Freeland has not responded to written requests for an interview.

Wright said he was near the intersection that night. "I might've been there. I
might know who did it," he said in a recent interview. "But I didn't kill
anyone."

Wright turned himself in to York County Prison two weeks ago for unpaid fines
from an assault charge in the early 1990s. His criminal record includes armed
robbery and assault.

Wright said he believes he'll be arrested.

"It's guilt by association," he said. "I didn't kill anyone, I never even got a
shot off."

To those who lived through the riots, it comes as little surprise it has taken
nearly 32 years for a new investigation of Schaad's death.

People remained loyal along racial lines. Many believe both the Allen and Schaad
cases were ignored because police did not want to be exposed or embarrassed for
their role in the riots.

Others believe the murder investigations were idled because any further action
by authorities would force a deeper divide of the city along racial lines and
risk more rioting.

Ted Hartzog, who lived in a West Princess Street neighborhood barricaded by
police during the riots, agreed with Mayor Charles Robertson, who recently told
Time magazine: "Everyone knew who was involved. But everyone thought it was
even. One black had been killed and one white -- even."

Robertson, a city policeman at the time, is one of nine men charged in Allen's
death. They await a June 25 preliminary hearing.

"We both see this the same way, only through the eyes of a different skin
color," said Hartzog, a 60-year-old retired Caterpillar worker.

Witnesses who testified before the grand jury in the Allen case said police
incited attacks against blacks and supplied at least one white gang member with
a gun and ammunition.

Moments before the armored car passed College and Penn, Wright said he and
several others sat near a ditch about 50 yards away.

Wright heard a noise and said he turned his head in time to see rifles shoved
out of the portholes in "Big Al," the name police gave one of three armored
cars.

"I dropped my pistols, dropped my beer and laid in the ditch," he said. "They
drove up from behind and just started shooting at us."

According to Warner's account, Big Al had been called to the area to protect
firefighters extinguishing a mattress fire. Soon after, the armored car was
dispatched to aid motorcycle rider Stan Gilbert, who had been shot near the same
intersection.

Warner gave no indication to investigators that they opened fire before reaching
the intersection, according to police and court records. McCoy recently said he
has no recollection of any events during the riots, although he did testify
about that night during a 1969 civil rights lawsuit.

An hour after the Schaad shooting, in "Big Al's" first return to the Penn
Street-College Avenue neighborhood, two black men, Clarence Ausby and Benjamin
Carter, were wounded by police fire.

On the way to the hospital inside an armored car, Ausby claims, police told him,
"Black boy, we should take you to the country and let you die."

Ausby said that if his neighbor, Amos Palmer, a black city police officer,
hadn't stopped the armored car to check on his condition, he "would be dead."
Palmer pulled him out of the armored car and transferred him to another vehicle,
which took him to the hospital.

Ausby spent 13 days at York Hospital, recovering from three bullet wounds to the
legs and one in the buttocks. Carter was hospitalized five days with a gunshot
to the abdomen.

Ausby and Carter were never charged with a crime.

Police say they were returning sniper fire in the area, but several witnesses
say that officers shouted racial slurs from the armored car, including, "OK, you
black bastards, if that's the way you want it, you're going to get it."

"They were shooting at us like we were game in the street. You couldn't do
anything but reach down, pick up the guy with you and carry him along," said
Gregory Williams, a 49-year-old city school board candidate who lived in York
during the riots.

After hearing two days of testimony in the 1969 civil rights suit, U.S. District
Court Judge William Nealon said police were "emotionally upset and disturbed
over the Schaad shooting" and engaged in a "purported wanton and reckless
shooting." He called it the "Green Street Calamity."

Two days after Schaad was shot, police stopped a suspected car thief near the
Codorus Housing Project in the 200 block of West College Avenue.

A group of 15 to 20 people -- mainly children -- watched as, witnesses say,
police were beating the car thief, a black man.

About a dozen shots were fired at the police, who returned 60 to 70 rounds into
the crowd, hitting two black children, Jeanette Register, 8, her 3-year-old
brother, Darryl and a white victim, Patricia Ebersole, 29.

Although police were under "intense fire," Nealon called their retaliation "rash
and excessive."

In reports filed with Gov. Shaffer, Warfield said he detailed instances of
brutality and indiscriminate shooting by police. Shaffer was concerned the
problems in York might spread to other Pennsylvania cities.

"There was a feeling that the cops were responsible for the violence and the
shootings in black neighborhoods," Warfield said. The majority of good cops took
the blame for the actions of a few "racist" and "antagonistic" fellow officers,
he said.

Similar allegations of police misconduct had been detailed in a 1968 Human
Relations Commission report. The investigation took place after the 1968 riot,
in which more than a dozen people were assaulted, seven people were treated for
dog bites and six properties were damaged.

The report warned of more racial strife because black residents were reacting
violently to repeated use of the police dogs and said unwarranted use of police
firearms was adding to crowd hysteria and endangering innocent lives.

"It was just like being on the plantation with the overseer," Wm. Lee Smallwood,
a black city councilman of 20 years, said of life in York City in the 1960s.

"I saw the K-9 folks chew up some black folks. I saw billy clubs used to beat
blacks in the head. I could hear the ... clubs beat on the people's heads."

City police officer Elmer Woodyard said he witnessed police investigate a
firebombing of two gas stations in the 400 block of Queen Street and then leave.

About a half hour later, a police armored car sprayed 50 to 75 rounds down in
the street, though there was no shooting at the time, he said.

"It was a senseless use of firepower," Woodyard said, according to news
accounts.

Woodyard, one of six black policemen in 1969, quit on the sixth day of the
riots, citing "dehumanizing treatment" of blacks. He told the now-defunct
Gazette and Daily that 15 to 20 city police officers were prejudiced to the
point their attitudes interfered with their judgment.

Reached at his home in Colorado, Woodyard declined comment for this story.

Tired of the police abuses and armed with a sense that division meant
vulnerability, a few dozen black men, mainly teenagers, loosely formed The Black
Unity Movement in 1967. The B.U.M. was modeled after the Black Panthers, Leon
Wright said.

"They were very anti-white, very reactionary. They were militant. They were more
protective of their community than aggressive. But understand this: They were
very angry young men," said Jeffrey Woodyard, 44, a black man who lived on Queen
Street and is cousin to Elmer Woodyard.

A flier distributed by the group in 1968, "Things for Brothers and Sisters to
Remember," instructed black residents to defend each other by "any means
necessary" and to say nothing if questioned by police.

"At that time, it was about Black Power. It was an assertion of one's humanity.
They were facing a system that would not allow them to be men," said Jeffrey
Woodyard, who now teaches communications and African studies at Stetson
University in Deland, Fla.

Even after the violence started to wane under a State Police and National Guard
presence, some wanted to continue battling with city police.

"A whole bunch of younger guys asked the National Guard why they came here. They
said they wanted to settle this score once and for all," Hartzog said.

If there was an officer on the York City Police force in 1969 who represented
everything black residents hated, it was Sgt. Nevin "Jigs" Barley, say people
interviewed for this story.

Barley treated blacks like "they were dirt" and was part of a "machine that
dominates blacks," said Lewis Johnstone, a plaintiff in the 1969 lawsuit.

Presiding Judge Nealon called Barley a "strong-willed individual with anti-Negro
feelings."

Bill Hose, a police officer during the riots and current county sheriff, called
Barley a "big-mouth bigot."

In an interview last year, Barley said, "I see white people pushed back to give
blacks more rights than I have."

He said blacks were breaking the law and deserved the treatment they got during
the riots.

Barley said he could feel the "resentment" of black youth, who he described as
"acting like animals."

At the civil rights trial, which included allegations of police supplying white
gangs with weapons in 1969, Barley was nearly held in contempt of court for
saying during a break that he earned enough overtime pay to "buy 50 rifles for
the Newberry Street gang."

His statement was overheard by two black witnesses; Barley said he was
misunderstood.

Leonard Landis, the city police chief during the riots, said police had orders
to fire only when fired upon and specific checks were established to track
ammunition use.

But last year Barley said, "[city police] fired a hell of a lot of shots during
the riots."

"I fired 50 or more rounds from a .38. We would fire wherever we saw the flash,"
said Barley, who retired in 1981 after 29 years on the police force. "I don't
know to this day if I hit anyone."

According to Warfield and court testimony, Barley once walked through the city
jail, rattled bullets in his hand, and said they were meant for specific black
leaders, including Lionel Bailey, the executive director of the Community
Progress Council, and Bobby Simpson, then a black activist and today the
executive director of Crispus Attucks Community Center.

Under oath, Barley first denied those allegations. Later, he said he didn't
recall.

A few days after the alleged jailhouse incident, at 3 a.m. July 22, 1969, shots
were fired into Simpson's Green Street home.

"Coincidence?" Warfield asked in a recent interview.

Barley said police were returning sniper fire from a third-floor window. Other
witnesses said there was no sniper fire.

Simpson has repeatedly declined to be interviewed.

Barley was also accused of threatening to plant a knife on Bailey as an excuse
to shoot him during his arrest on a curfew violation. Bailey was later found not
guilty: Landis had sent him out on a peacekeeping mission to restore order in
the black neighborhoods.

Barley denies the allegation, but Bailey said the K-9 officer, angered by the
Schaad shooting, tried to send a message back to the black militants by telling
him, "They got one of our men and we're going to get us 10 niggers."

In dismissing the lawsuit against the city, Nealon found fault on both sides,
describing attacks by blacks and whites as "merciless and vicious."

While police action had kept the city from becoming a "gory death chamber,"
Nealon said some of the police crossed the line. He cited the police shootings
on Green Street and of the Register children, Barley's racial taunting of Bailey
and the white power utterances by police, particularly Robertson, whose behavior
he described as "outrageous and reprehensible."

Still, Nealon denied the plaintiffs' claim that the abuse was systematic.

The plaintiffs' attorney, Peter Hearn, appealed Nealon's decision, arguing that
the judge acknowledged evidence of police misconduct.

In defending York City before the U.S. 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals, State
Attorney General Fred Speakers argued a new administration had established a
citizens' grievance committee to investigate police abuses. The law authorizing
the panel was deleted from the books in 1999 under Robertson's administration.

Speakers also said the city's elite K-9 corps had been dismantled, with the
dog's handlers now performing regular police duties and accountable to the
"chain of command."

Two of the three circuit judges agreed and rejected the appeal, but dissenting
Judge John Briggs sided with the plaintiffs.

"York Police repeatedly violated the rights ... of the black community. Whether
police did so by deliberate design is open to doubt but that the pattern of
unlawfulness was demonstrated by them to York Negroes cannot be doubted by me,"
Briggs wrote.

Access to further documents and communications about police and administrative
actions before and after the riots has been denied The York Dispatch/Sunday News
by the Robertson administration. The newspaper sued the city last July in
response. The case is still unresolved.

At the same time, federal investigators have been asked to re-examine the
conduct of York City police during the riots. U.S. Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich.,
the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, last week sent a formal
request to the Justice Department.

Schaad may have paid the price for a few racist cops who "smeared" the many good
officers, Hose said.

"There was a lot of bitterness for the senseless shooting of Henry Schaad. The
shooters weren't shooting at Henry Schaad. They were shooting at an authority
figure. But they picked the wrong target. He didn't have a prejudiced bone in
his body. And I can't say that about everyone," Hose said.

"He was shot down because he was perceived to be part of the establishment. They
blindly lashed out and killed him."

But to Raymond Crenshaw, a city councilman and Democratic candidate for mayor,
the blame goes beyond a few bad cops. He points to police officers who did not
come forward with what they knew.

"There were good people on the police force who were reluctant to tell on the
bad guys. It was a situation made for chaos," said Crenshaw, who, along with
Warfield, ran the Governor's Field Office during the riots.

And after years of suspicion and mistrust, some members of the black community
are having second thoughts about remaining silent. When arrests were made in the
Allen case, people began to talk.

"[It] will help solve the Schaad case because people will now come forward. If
they [had] done this in reverse, they would have got nothing," Crenshaw said.

Hartzog isn't so sure. Time doesn't necessarily heal all wounds and the scars of
police abuses run deep, he said. To this day, Hartzog said, he's not sure if he
will help investigators with what he knows.

"It's none of my business," he said. "You had a white person dead. You had a
black person dead. The cops were shooting at us. We can't shoot back?"

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 York Newspapers, Inc.


                             289 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                          The York Dispatch (York, PA)

                            December 4, 2001 Tuesday

THE YORK RIOT OF 1969:;
Witnesses: Cops provoked violenceThey say police, including Robertson, exhorted
whites to attack blacks

BYLINE: MIKE HOOVER Dispatch/Sunday News

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORT

LENGTH: 4638 words


After they left the courtroom last week, those called to testify weren't talking
about what they told a grand jury investigating two killings during York's 1969
race riots.

But long before the grand jury convened, witnesses to the violence were saying
that York City police not only failed to solve these crimes, some officers --
including current York Mayor Charles Robertson -- aggravated an already hostile
environment. Interviews with witnesses and examination of court and law
enforcement records over the last seven months by The York Dispatch/Sunday News
reveal allegations that some officers incited whites to racial violence and
failed to protect blacks against it.

The accusations include:

The day before Lillie Belle Allen, a 27-year-old black visitor from Aiken, S.C.,
was shot to death on North Newberry Street, witnesses say, uniformed police were
heard telling an angry crowd to shoot any black who ventured into their
neighborhood.

The day Allen was killed, witnesses say, police shouted racial slurs and handed
out ammunition to frightened white neighborhood residents and gang members.

Moments before the Allen shooting, law enforcement officials were seen moving a
barricade at Philadelphia and Newberry streets, allowing Allen and four black
relatives to drive into a hostile neighborhood -- where a mob would fire more
than 100 shots.

A black woman hit by flying glass when her home was attacked by a white gang
said city police told her on the way to the hospital that four blacks would die
for every white killed, according to a state police report.

Many of these recent claims bolster allegations lodged against police in an
unsuccessful federal civil-rights lawsuit filed against the city after the riots
. U.S. Middle District Court Judge William Nealon was critical of police
conduct, but ruled that police excesses were understandable during a time of
massive civil unrest.

Trial records and FBI and state police reports also contain allegations of
police abuses. A state police report written in the aftermath of the riots also
indicates that city police initially refused state help to quell the violence,
lending credence to the perception in the black community that officers were
openly siding with whites.

The latest accounts surfaced as part of the renewed probe into the riots last
fall, and began in conjunction with more than 100 interviews with those involved
by city, county and state investigators.

The investigative grand jury, approved in June by York County President Judge
John Uhler, has begun hearing testimony and will decide if criminal indictments
should be handed down by the York County District Attorney's Office.

While the investigation focuses on two unsolved homicides -- the July 21, 1969
killing of Allen and the July 18, 1969 mortal shooting of city police Officer
Henry C. Schaad -- York County District Attorney H. Stanley Rebert said the new
investigation will examine "other offenses occurring during this period of
time."

In a city where some people still question police behavior enough to call for an
independent citizen police review board, the investigation has also taken on
political overtones as it concerns Robertson, the city's mayor of seven years.
He was a city patrolman in 1969 and was first on the scene in the Allen
shooting.

A well-known beat cop in the Newberry Street neighborhood, Robertson was the
only police officer witnesses say they recognized shouting racial slurs and
encouraging attacks on blacks.

"He [Robertson] was the lighter fluid who flamed the fire during the riots. He
was stoking the flames," said Sterling "Fred" Flickinger, who was a member of a
white gang known as the Newberry Street Boys, or the NSBs.

Former city patrolman Dennis McMaster, who along with Robertson was one of the
first officers to respond to the Allen shooting, acknowledges people did "some
nasty things" during the riots. While declining to discuss specifics, he
described Robertson as "emotional" and the mood as "frenzied."

"Did we do things wrong? Absolutely. Did we learn from our mistakes? I hope we
did. But I am not going to be the guy to criticize fellow officers," said
McMaster, a former chief of detectives who retired from the city police force
after 28 years. He is now police chief in East Pennsboro Township, Cumberland
County.

"Our view was jaundiced based on what we were going through," McMaster said.

Looking back, Robertson admits he was once a "racist" who used the word
"nigger." But he said he changed his views during post-riot sensitivity training
at York College. He declined to say if he or any other officer did anything
improper during the riots, but he denied advocating violence against blacks or
seeing anyone hand out ammunition.

"People can take pot shots at the mayor. If they want to say it to my face, I'd
lock them up," said Robertson, who described his accusers as "liars," "drunks"
or "nuts."

White fear, white power

One of the first allegations of police misconduct stems from a rally of white
residents in Farquhar Park two days after Schaad, a white rookie officer, was
shot while patrolling a black city neighborhood. At the rally, uniformed police
were heard angrily talking about the attack on Schaad, who was fighting for life
on a respirator at York Hospital.

Among those in the crowd were members of the Newberry Street Boys and their
cross-town white gang rivals, the Girarders, who agreed to put their differences
aside to deal with the perceived threat of attacks by blacks.

"We came to the conclusion to keep the s--- on that end of town and away from
our neighborhood and our families," said former Girarder Rick Knouse, now a
48-year-old line worker at Harley-Davidson Inc. in Springettsbury Township.

During the rally, Robertson raised his fist in the air, shouted "white power,"
and later advocated attacks against blacks, according to witnesses. Other
officers were there, too, but witnesses say they remember only Robertson, whom
they recognized because his beat included the section of town near Farquhar Park
and the York YMCA.

Joe Deveney, a former Smith Street resident who was 19 at the time, said
Robertson showed those at the rally where a bullet had ripped through an armored
car and hit Schaad, a William Penn Senior High School graduate who had grown up
in the Farquhar Park neighborhood.

Deveney said Robertson yelled "white power" only to get the attention of a
dispersing crowd.

"I don't think he [Robertson] said it to be a racist but to show us it was a
serious matter and this was no game," Deveney said.

Whatever his motive, the image of the white policeman, his clenched fist in the
air, had an impact.

"I still wake up at night remembering this guy in uniform screaming 'white
power,' and he was a cop," said the 51-year-old Flickinger, who now lives out of
state. "I keep asking myself, 'Who are we going to believe? Who are we going to
trust?' ...

"How do you take that as a 17-year-old?"

Protecting their turf

After police spoke at Farquhar Park, Flickinger and Knouse said, the crowd
debated what to do about Schaad's shooting. They considered terrorizing black
neighborhoods, but decided to stay on their own turf.

"They [the cops] were telling us to protect our neighborhood and to shoot
anything black that comes down the street. If the car didn't have a white
hankie, open fire," Knouse said.

"They were pumping us up ... They were saying, 'Don't let the blacks come in and
invade our area.'"

The night of the rally, several NSBs allegedly shot up the home of the Meyers
family, the only black family on Cottage Hill Road. Marie Meyers was hit by
flying glass during the shooting and was later taken by police to York Hospital
and treated for minor injuries.

Marie Meyers made repeated calls to police as she crawled on the floor while
gunfire hit the house and shattered windows. Next door, Nancy Kohler used a
garden hose to put out the flames in back of her home, set ablaze by a firebomb
as her calls for police and firefighters were also ignored.

The calls for help went unanswered until one last attempt in which Meyers'
husband, Frank Meyers, reported she was injured, according to recent interviews
and testimony from the 1969 civil-rights lawsuit.

En route to York Hospital, city police allegedly told Marie Meyers that four
blacks would be killed for every white killed. Her account was given to local
media but was never published, according to an Aug. 4, 1969 report filed by
state police Lt. Michael Donahoe.

Interviewed several times over the years by state police and the FBI, including
recently, the Meyers family identified several NSBs as being among the shooters.
No charges were ever filed.

"To the day I die, I say the cops were hooked into this. The moment I was [hit],
the cops were right there," Marie Meyers said recently. She and her husband
testified before the grand jury this week.

Knouse said he arrived on Newberry Street unarmed the day of the Farquhar Park
rally and went to the home of NSB leader Bobby Messersmith. He remembers the
basement looked like a command post, with ammunition, "a lot of guns," a police
scanner and a tub full of beer.

Knouse said Bobby Messersmith's father, John, who died in 1985, handed him a
rifle.

"He [John Messersmith] was acting like a captain. He was assigning kids out on
patrol," Knouse said.

Steve Rinehart, who lived on Gay Avenue, remembers that the NSBs made the
younger kids pile rocks at every corner to pelt passing cars. At night, police
on patrol would yell "white, white, white" so they weren't mistaken for blacks,
he said.

"I remember guys walking with rifles over their shoulders like they were in the
military. It was like a platoon marching up and down the street," said Rinehart,
who was 11 during the riots.

Bob Stoner, an outreach worker at the YMCA who dealt with teenagers, said he
anticipated trouble and called police the day before Allen was shot, but
officers didn't respond.

"I didn't like the thought of 14-15 year olds with guns," Stoner said.

Three days after Allen's killing, with National Guard units patrolling York
streets in armored vehicles, city police raided the Messersmith home and
confiscated 11 guns and 893 rounds of ammunition.

Bobby Messersmith recently denied he had anything to do with, or know anything
about Allen's death. He declined further comment, other than to say the
confiscated guns were returned in 1971 and he has been contacted recently as
part of the reopened investigation. He testified before the grand jury
Wednesday.

Former patrolmen, such as Chester A. "Gabby" Guyer, questioned whether a quicker
police response would have reduced the damages and mayhem. By the riots' end, 38
people had been injured, including 26 from gunshots.

Guyer, now a retired city police officer, said politics prevented city leaders
from effectively dealing with the riots. He said he and many officers felt they
had they had enough manpower to "clean up" the problems in both the white and
black neighborhoods before the riots, but were never allowed to, angering some
officers and demoralizing others.

When Guyer criticized his police superiors and Mayor John Snyder for not
addressing the problem areas, he was told those causing the trouble were "only
hurting themselves" with their lawlessness and "to keep his mouth shut."

"Your hands were tied. We couldn't perform our duties," Guyer said.

Witnesses saw police handing out ammo

Standing on the railroad tracks at Newberry Street and Gay Avenue, where Allen
would die a few hours later, Flickinger said, he saw an enraged Robertson
advocating violence to about 15 people, as he had done earlier in Farquhar Park.

"He [Robertson] was saying if he wasn't a cop, he would be leading 'commando
raids against those niggers.' I remember it like it was yesterday," Flickinger
said recently.

Under oath, Flickinger identified Robertson 31 years ago in federal court.
Because Robertson -- who was not called to testify -- did not deny the
accusation, Judge Nealon accepted Flickinger's testimony as true.

"This conduct by a police officer, considering the frenzied state of emotions
prevailing at the time, was outrageous and reprehensible," Nealon wrote in his
opinion.

Nealon's statement came at the conclusion of the trial in a class-action suit
Philadelphia attorney Peter Hearn had filed in the weeks after the riots. The
suit, filed on behalf of York's minority community, alleged police misconduct.
Hearn accused police of racism, supplying the NSBs with weapons and subverting a
directive to account for all ammunition.

During the trial, Hearn called Charles Harris, a 22-year-old black man, who said
he saw a police officer give an NSB a rifle on July 19, 1969 at North Newberry
and Market streets. But Nealon dismissed Harris' testimony as unsubstantiated.

Recent accounts by witnesses, however, bolster Harris' allegations.

The day Allen was killed, Knouse said, he saw police on Newberry Street talking
about "the whites having to take care of themselves" and "throwing" ammunition
from an armored car or truck to the crowd.

Robertson was the only cop in the crowd Knouse said he recognized. However,
Knouse said he didn't see Robertson hand out ammunition.

"The cops were giving ammunition to the kids. I saw them hold it and walk away
with it," said Knouse, who recently gave a statement to York City Detective
Dennis Williams and agreed to testify before the grand jury.

Like others involved in the investigation, Williams is under a gag order issued
by Judge Uhler not to discuss the cases. He declined comment. But York City
Councilman Wm. Lee Smallwood said he and other leaders in the black community
are aware that the district attorney's office has information alleging police
handed out ammunition during the riots.

Although former city police chief Wayne Ruppert says he doubts cops supplied the
NSBs with ammunition, he said it was "possible" that people could have armed
friends.

"People could have brought a gun into the neighborhood to give to a family
member for protection. I don't see anything wrong with that," said Ruppert, who
grew up on North Newberry Street and who had family living there during the
riots, including his mother and sister.

"They [NSBs] were just trying to protect the neighborhood." Bad time to be black
on Newberry Street

The Allen family didn't know Newberry Street had turned into a war zone.

Visiting from Aiken, S.C., they were taking a shortcut to Route 30 when they
made a wrong turn onto Newberry Street. Allen was a back-seat passenger; also in
the car were her sister and sister's husband, Hattie and Murray Dickson of York,
and her parents, the Rev. and Mrs. James Mosley.

At first, Hattie Dickson, the driver of the car that night, couldn't put her
finger on what was wrong. She said she remembers two officers wearing white
helmets standing on the corner as she made a right onto Newberry Street.

In the days after the riots, the family told FBI agents that a group of 15 to 20
city and state police let them pass into the hostile neighborhood.

"They [the police] seen us. They was talking and laughing. Jesus as my witness,
I didn't give it a second thought," said Hattie Dickson.

Frank Reynolds immediately sensed danger. He said he watched from his porch at
120 N. Newberry St. as either state troopers or city police moved the barricade
at Philadelphia and Newberry streets to let the car with South Carolina license
plates pass. Because the street was illuminated only by street lights, he says
he couldn't make out the uniforms but is "sure" they were law enforcement
officials.

As gunfire erupted, Reynolds ran inside his home and hit the floor.

Moments later, he said, he looked out to see the bullet-riddled car, its windows
shattered, driving by "real fast" on its rims. He learned afterward that someone
in the car had been killed at the railroad tracks.

"When they moved the barricade, I knew there was going to be trouble. Cars
weren't supposed to go through to the railroad tracks. I thought at the time,
'Why did they let the car go through'?" said Reynolds, now 61.

From the moment he ran up to Allen, bleeding in the street, McMaster said, he
always wondered how the car got into an openly armed, white neighborhood. He
said he only recently learned from Detective Williams that police moved the
barricade.

To this day, McMaster -- who rode that night in an armored car called Big Al
with Robertson -- said he is amazed that Allen was the only one killed.

"If someone allowed a carload of African-Americans to go north on Newberry
Street, they put them in tremendous danger," said McMaster, who was once
Williams' supervisor.

Extra ammunition, shots fired by police

Allegations also surfaced during and after the riots that police themselves were
responsible for much of the gunfire heard across town, but blamed it on rioting
blacks.

State police Lt. Donahoe's 1969 post-riot state police report includes
allegations by witnesses who said they saw city police firing into an empty Penn
Park one night, then radioing that they were under fire.

During the civil-rights trial, Hearn also tried to show a lack of supervision
and control of patrol officers by citing a July 19, 1969 directive by Public
Safety Director Jacob W. Hose.

Hose wanted all ammunition checked because he wanted to know "some semblance" of
what was used, where and by whom. Hearn alleged police brought their own
ammunition to subvert the directive, but hecouldn't prove it in court.

Interviewed recently about the allegations of police misconduct, Hearn said he
still believes police were not interested in the truth. "I thought at the time
police officers were lying."

With the new investigation, other details are coming to light.

Several police officers interviewed recently said they brought their own weapons
to balance the firepower on the street, particularly since Schaad was shot with
armor-piercing bullets fired from a high-powered .30-40 Krag military rifle.

City police were equipped with only six-shot .38-caliber revolvers and the
police armory contained outdated World War I-era Springfield bolt-action rifles
and 1897 Winchester shotguns, McMaster said.

"We had no training in these weapons. One officer discharged the weapon through
the roof of his car," he said.

Police superiors were aware that officers brought their own supplies because
there weren't enough weapons to go around, said Robertson and McMaster.
Robertson said he brought a .30-06 rifle and ammunition he borrowed from a
neighbor to supplement his revolver.

"It was for self-protection," Robertson said.

Police mentality: A matter of time, place

Police and neighborhood residents say it is unfair to judge the events of three
decades ago without having lived through the experience.

Residents along Newberry Street thought they were going to be invaded by
marauding blacks who had already fired on whites and thrown bricks through
windows, Deveney said.

"It was a war. You don't go back and investigate every nook and cranny in a
war," said Deveney, a machinist who now lives in Spring Garden Township.

There have already been enough casualties, Deveney said. He pointed to the case
of Donald Altland, his friend and former NSB member who committed suicide in
April after being questioned by police about Allen's death. Before taking his
life, Altland left a tape recording, reportedly detailing what happened.

Lt. H. Steven Gibbs, who ran the police canine unit, hated in the black
community, said it was hard not to take sides. He, like many in the white
community, thought blacks were out of control.

During an interview in May, Robertson said that blacks caused "90 percent of the
problems" that led to the riots.

"Any white was a bad person as far as the blacks were concerned. The whites were
scared to death," Gibbs said.

Gibbs, who claimed he was No. 1 on a black militant hit list, said he could see
the "hate" in the eyes of openly disrespectful and lawless blacks. Police fought
back at the source of their anger and stuck together "like family," he said.

"You are a human being. We were not robots. If someone took a swing at me, I'm
going to swing back. We all did," Gibbs said.

Gibbs recalled that concerned clergy rode along with police. He said a white
preacher was in his squad car when blacks opened fire at King and Penn streets,
hitting the cruiser once.

"The preacher got so shook up that he started yelling, 'Kill them! Kill them!'"
Gibbs said. "I thought, 'Ain't this a bitch'."

"When bullets are whizzing by your ear, it changes your outlook," said McMaster,
who said he came under fire in black neighborhoods, but not in the white
sections of town, like Newberry Street. Force seen as white establishment

Even before the riots, city police conduct had been an issue that helped spark
the violence.

The city's police force was seen by many as defenders of a racist order and the
white establishment. Of 98 officers, only six were black.

Setting the tone for law enforcement and the community was Mayor John Snyder --
a World War I veteran who strutted the streets in tall boots while walking his
German shepherd. Snyder openly called blacks "darkies" who "loved to dance." He
ignored calls for a citizen police review board and refused to dismantle the
canine unit.

"He [Snyder] treated blacks as second-class citizens. His attitudes didn't help
calm the racial tension. His attitude reflected the attitude of many in town,"
said E. Nelson Read, a retired attorney and former York City councilman who now
lives in Key West, Fla.

While the streets were filling with sniper fire and sporadic firebombings,
then-police-Chief Leonard Landis repeatedly refused initial state police offers
for assistance.

Although Snyder wanted to call in state police, Hose and Landis openly
disagreed, believing the city's officers could handle the rioting without
outside interference, according to a Aug. 26, 1969 state police report, titled
"Operations of the York Disorder."

As one example of the confusion, York City Police Capt. Russell Koontz, who was
in charge of controlling civil disturbances, was pleading with state police
Capt. Robert Rice to activate the National Guard while Landis was still saying
everything was under control.

On the second day of rioting, after eight people were shot in less than a
two-hour span, Landis asked for state police help, a gesture he said was only to
"placate" the mayor, according to the state police report. State police also
were baffled as to why Landis "spurned" their offer to help investigate the
killing of Officer Schaad, according to the report.

State police brought an arsenal of equipment that they shared with city police,
including gas masks, batons, steel helmets, bulletproof vests along with
shields, shotguns and nearly 10,000 rounds of ammunition.

In his report, Donahoe said people in the black community wanted state and
National Guard involvement, feeling they would receive more equitable treatment
from them than from city police.

In an impromptu meeting with state police and national guard commanders July 25,
1969 at Penn Cafe, 254 Penn St., a group of 50 blacks complained about getting
no protection from city police and of being barricaded in during the riots, and
alleging a portion of the shooting was done by city police. As a good-faith
gesture for peace, the black group gave state police six sticks of dynamite they
said they had been going to use to blow up armored vehicles patrolling the
streets.

In the aftermath of the riots, Donahoe said state police were convinced that the
"most urgent immediate need" was promoting understanding and dialogue between
city police and the community, particularly blacks.

Black officers, too, felt the pressure to take sides.

After two years on the force, black city police officer Elmer C. Woodyard Jr.,
quit on the sixth day of rioting, citing racism among fellow officers. Woodyard
told Donahoe he "got the impression" white officers were subjecting black
citizens to brutality and indignity but couldn't relate a single incident of
which he had personal knowledge.

Woodyard did say that he didn't like how a few of his fellow officers used
derogatory terms to describe blacks.

Tom Chatman, a black detective sergeant who later became police chief and now
serves on Judge Uhler's staff, acknowledged he sensed the prejudice of some
fellow officers and remembers confronting Snyder for referring to blacks as
"darkies."

But, he added, "I didn't let my emotions interfere with my duty. I told a lot of
them [blacks] you can't break the law to change things. That's wrong." Days of
violence leave lasting legacy

Some members of the black community want allegations of police misconduct
brought out into the open, said Smallwood, a city councilman for 18 years. There
has long been a feeling that the investigations into riot-related crimes were
not pursued so that police would not be embarrassed or exposed, he said.

"If that [the investigation] leads to the mayor's door, so be it," Smallwood
said.

Renowned Special Olympics athlete Loretta Claiborne, for example, remembers how
Robertson would run the black children home at night.

"Niggers, it's 8 o'clock. You got 15 minutes to get home," Claiborne remembers
Robertson saying.

Earlier this year, Robertson said he supported the reopened investigation,
saying it would be "an honor" to find justice under his administration. He has
since changed his position, saying it will divide people along racial lines and
potentially destroy the city.

But the city still lives with many of the scars that divided it 31 years ago.

Over protests of the local NAACP and two black city councilman, the city council
earlier this year repealed a 1970 law that created a police review board
designed to investigate allegations of police misconduct.

Robertson -- who, like Snyder, fought a police review board and still supports
the return of the canine unit -- acknowledges the lasting impact of the riots.
He estimates that 40 percent of white residents left the city after the riots,
leading to the city's decline as homeowners were replaced with absentee
landlords.

Still, Robertson asks why the York County District Attorney's Office didn't
reopen the unsolved murders years ago and questions the political agenda of
Republicans, District Attorney Rebert, and his top assistant, Tom Kelley, a
former city councilman who often criticized Robertson's Democratic
administration.

Robertson is expected to be called before the grand jury because he was the
first police officer on the scene of the Allen shooting. He was recently
interviewed by investigators.

After consulting with his personal attorney, whom he declined to name, Robertson
said he will no longer talk about the riots. The Robertson administration has
also blocked public access to riot-era administrative and police records, a
decision The York Dispatch/Sunday News has appealed to county court.

Even some city police officers say they are confused by Robertson's opposition
to convening the grand jury.

McMaster said he wonders why anyone would resist the investigations --
particularly one involving the death of a fellow police officer. He said
Robertson and other former officers may be reluctant to examine an embarrassing
time for the city or feel that the investigation has turned into a "witch hunt"
that is "kicking the cops."

Other former officers believe the renewed investigation may finally bring
closure.

"You have some reputable people, because of their own stupidity, were involved
in this stuff," said Dennis Smith, a former city police officer who was
stationed in the Newberry Street neighborhood during the riots.

"There will be a cost to the truth."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 York Newspapers, Inc.


                             290 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                          The York Dispatch (York, PA)

                            March 25, 2004 Thursday

Ruling lets Allen riot lawsuit go forward;
Judge agrees civil case not too old to go to trial

BYLINE: STAFF AND WIRE REPORT

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 578 words


A federal judge has refused to dismiss a civil-rights lawsuit filed against York
city and five former police officers by the family of Lillie Belle Allen, a
young black woman killed during the 1969 race riots.

U.S. District Judge Yvette Kane ruled yesterday that the qualified immunity that
generally shields public officials from lawsuits involving the performance of
their duties does not apply to civil-rights violations such as those alleged in
the suit.

Kane also ruled that a two-year statute of limitations does not apply in the
34-year-old case because only in 2002 -- when three men, including former York
Mayor Charlie Robertson, went on trial for Allen's death -- did the extent of
police and city involvement become clear, as her family alleges.

In the criminal trial, Robertson was acquitted of all charges, but the jury
convicted the two others, both former white gang members, of second-degree
murder in Allen's death. Seven other men pleaded guilty or no contest to lesser
charges.

Robertson, who was a York police officer in 1969 and the first officer on the
scene of Allen's fatal shooting, is one of the five former officers named in the
civil suit.

Officer slain: In the suit, Allen's family alleges that mem- bers of the city's
predominantly white police department were vengeful after the mortal wounding of
fellow officer Henry Schaad on July 18, 1969 -- the second day of the riots --
and incited whites in the city to violence against blacks.

Three days later the police department was aware of a gathering mob of armed
white youths on a city street and did nothing to disperse the youths, block off
the neighborhood to blacks or prevent Allen's death at their hands that evening,
the lawsuit alleges.

Allen, 27, of Aiken, S.C., was fatally shot on the fifth day of the riots when
she and four family members drove their car through a white neighborhood on
their way to buy groceries.

Schaad's and Allen's killings remained unsolved for decades. But prosecutors,
citing new information, reopened both cases in 1999 and began making arrests in
2001.

Legal arguments: Attorneys for the city of York contended that Allen's family
members had the information necessary for a lawsuit to be filed within two years
of her death and that the lawsuit should be dismissed because it was filed long
after the statute of limitations expired.

"A middle district judge held a hearing on many of these same issues within two
years of the event," assistant city solicitor Don Hoyt said this morning. "It
was apparent to anybody in the county what had happened so they had ample time
to file a suit."

But attorneys for the Allen family argued the police officers concealed their
involvement in the murders and withheld evidence, which they said nullifies the
statute of limitations.

The judge agreed the statute of limitations should not be applied, since there
are allegations of concealment.

"It is well-established under Pennsylvania law that the statute of limitations
does not begin to run until a plaintiff has discovered or, exercising reasonable
diligence, should have discovered an injury and its cause," Kane wrote in the
12-page ruling. Hoyt said officials are considering an appeal.

Attorneys for the Allen family could not be reached for comment this morning.

A case management conference is set for May 19.

class=subscribelink
'https://webgateway.inyork.com/CBWebserver/subscription.html'>Subscribe Now!

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 York Newspapers, Inc.


                             291 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

              San Gabriel Valley Tribune (San Gabriel Valley, CA)

                             April 29, 2002 Monday

Driver went through 'war zone' I was a shuttle driver with Federal Express and
was coming back from the airport after dropping off freight when the riots
started. I remember driving through the Crenshaw Mall where I saw dozens of
people running from all

BYLINE: late evening, it had started, and the news choppers could not cover all
the fires that had been set. For the next few days I stayed close to home,
watching the news and keeping an eye out with others for any troublemakers
coming into the complex.

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 905 words


It was after the National Guard started to patrol the streets of Los Angeles
that I had to travel into that area for business. I was on the 10 Freeway, going
west, in the Alhambra area, when I passed a National Guard truck full of
guardsmen going on duty. Some were looking around, a couple just happened to be
looking at me. When our eyes met, I did the only thing I could think of, I
saluted them with a crisp military salute.

Almost everyone in the back of the truck saluted back. What can I say, it was
the only way I could show support for these guys and it brought a tear or two to
my eyes, plus I felt very proud of them; they were heroes of that day.

John Schneider

Rowland Heights

Bird's eye view of mayhem

I had just started my 8 p.m. work shift in Los Angeles when all hell broke loose
on Frist and Spring street.

I watched everything unfold from a third-floor parking structure on Spring
Street.

What a night to remember.

Dale Kunesh

Covina

Dodger fans' scary post-game

I'm a 36-year-old legal secretary in the mid-Wilshire area. I used to live at
Pico Boulevard and Kingsley Drive and worked at Wilshire Boulevard and Normandie
Avenue.

In the early evening of April 29, 1992 my 9-year-old son, myself and three
relatives - one adult, two minors - were going to Dodger Stadium for a baseball
game. Right before heading out, we saw the news and what was happening at
Normandie and Florence and how they had beaten Reginald Denny were celebrating
over it.

My wife suggested that we stay home but we headed out to Dodger Stadium.

At several times during the game, they announced and were advising fans not to
get on the nearby freeways post game beause all the off-ramps had been closed.

I remember heading out of Dodger Stadium and going through Chinatown. Nothing
unusual happening there. We proceeded on Hill Street heading towards Pico
Boulevard. Once we got to downtown Los Angeles, around Hill Street between Sixth
and Eighth streets, we began sensing something was wrong.

Everyone in the car was beginning to feel nervous and uneasy, because we could
see several cars swerving and the passengers yelling and throwing stuff onto the
streets. You could also see broken windows of the storefronts along the streets
and people running all around.

To this day, we don't really comprehend how it is that we were able to travel
through downtown without incident. To tell you the truth, I don't even remember
what route we took. We were just hoping and praying to get out of there soon.

We arrived home to find my wife waiting anxiously for us outside in our yard.
She was so worried, she said she had tried having us paged at Dodger Stadium to
warn us.

I remember that over the next several days we slept in the living room because
people would drive by on Pico Boulevard, honk their horns, yell and smash
bottles. They also tried to burn a building at the corner. I remember having to
wait in extra long lines at the local supermarket in order to buy milk and
essentials for the children.

Our employers gave us several days off so as not to put anyone in the path of
danger. I remember feeling nervous and anxious for several months after all that
happened. It made everyone in our families realize how precious life is and that
we need to stick together and to not sweat the small things.

We could not comprehend why people would do this to their own
neighborhood/community.

Yes, injustice was done, but it did not mean everyone [or the few, who thought
they were representing everyone] could take matters into their own hands.

At the time of the second verdict several years later, we were living in
Alhambra and on the Saturday that they were going to be read, we were wondering
what would happen. We weren't living close to downtown Los Angeles, but we
feared the same thing happening again. I remember that on that day, we didn't
want to go out at all. Just wanted to stay home in case something happened.

Carlos Garcia

Baldwin Park

Riot hit close to home

On the day of the riot, I was working in South Gate and I walked to work for
excercise. Rumors from customers and radio news kept us informed of how close
the riot was to us. The South Gate police kept our area contained.

We heard Clark Drug Store was looted and burned. It was located a block away
from my apartment. At 2:30 p.m. I made the decision to close the store. Two of
the men I worked with drove me home.

That whole day and evening were nightmares. Locked in my apartment, I still saw
evidence of looting [from my windows]. More fires erupted at the end of the
block. The lights went out about 9:30 p.m. and didn't come on again.

My family came from Rowland Heights the next day and I spent the weekend at
their home receiving tender loving care. With urging, I considered moving to
Rowland Heights. My son took me back to Lynwood Monday morning.

On the second day home during the night, I heard banging and I thought it was on
a door. When I got up the next morning, I discovered my window had been hit
going over where my chair sat and into the wall as well as the next aprtment
wall. I moved to Rowland Heights into Victoria Woods within a few days.

My blessings are many. God was with me. My son and daughter-in-law were there
for me. My out-of-town family called words of encouragement after the event.

The memories of what I experienced are still with me.

Dorene C. Gardner

Rowland Heights

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

   Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.


                             292 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                          September 27, 2014 Saturday

U.S. Court Issues Summons to Modi in Lawsuit Over 2002 Riots

LENGTH: 654  words


A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to arrive for a much-touted
five-day visit to the United States, a federal court in New York issued a
summons for Mr. Modi to respond to a lawsuit that accuses him of human rights
abuses in connection with religious riots in 2002 that tore through Gujarat, the
state he then led.


The summons, which requires him to respond within 21 days, is not likely to have
any concrete effect on Mr. Modi's visit, which includes high-profile events with
President Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and numerous other political
and corporate leaders. Courts issue such summonses when a complaint is filed,
and the same lawyer has filed similar lawsuits against Indian leaders in the
past. A lawyer acting on behalf of Mr. Modi and the Indian government will
likely seek to have the case dismissed, leaving a judge to decide the matter in
several months.
Mr. Modi now enjoys "head of state immunity," a legal consideration established
by American and international law in order to allow world leaders to work
without interference, according to John F. Murphy, a specialist in international
human rights law from Villanova University, who said he expected the court to
dismiss the case. He said the State Department may also issue a "suggestion of
immunity" to the court, he said
But it is a reminder that the United States government believed that Mr. Modi
had acted too slowly to stop the riots and that in 2005, it took the rare step
of putting him under a visa ban, which remains in place. (He was able to travel
because he is now eligible for a diplomatic visa, which is not affected.) As it
became clear that Mr. Modi was likely to become prime minister, the United
States has sought to set that history aside, build a relationship with him and
use the change of governments to deepen both trade and defense cooperation with
India.
Such lawsuits are not unprecedented. The same attorney, representing a group
called Sikhs for Justice, filed a lawsuit against Sonia Gandhi, the leader of
the Indian National Congress party, alleging human rights abuses said to have
taken place during anti-Sikh riots in 1984. And a summons was presented to her
last year. Ms. Gandhi made a motion to dismiss the claim, and that motion
succeeded this year, The Times of India reported.
The complaint, filed Thursday in the Southern District of New York, names two
Indians as plaintiffs, one identified only as Asif and the other as Jane Doe,
who, the complaint says, would not give her name out of "well-founded fear of
retaliation from the state and nonstate actors." It says Mr. Modi and the state
government were responsible for extrajudicial killings, "organized violence,
large-scale displacement of members of the Muslim minority population, and the
continuing denial of justice.  The lawyer who filed the complaint late on
Thursday afternoon, Gurpatwant Singh Pannum, said his clients had been "looking
for this opportunity for a long time."
"It will be a big setback to Modi, because he was involved in the genocidal
attack on Muslims, and he got away with it," Mr. Pannum said. "I am sure he
thinks he is not going to be held accountable, but he is wrong on this one."
The Gujarat riots broke out after a train carrying mostly Hindus was set on fire
at the station in Godhra, a predominantly Muslim area, killing 59 people.
Blaming Muslims, mobs of Hindus rampaged, raping, looting and killing in a spasm
of violence that raged for days and persisted for weeks. More than 1,200 people
died, most of them Muslims.
Mr. Modi, who has close ties to right-wing Hindu organizations, was accused by
many in India of failing to stop the killing. However, no Indian court to date
has found him responsible. Late last year, a court rejected a petition seeking
his prosecution in the case, a decision that Mr. Modi hailed by writing, over
Twitter, "Truth alone triumphs." 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             293 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                             June 11, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

We should be proud of our tax laws

BYLINE: Jamie Golombek, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. B20

LENGTH: 591 words


June 2016 marks Canada's first ever Pride Month, which was officially launched
on June 1 when Prime Minister Justin Trudeau raised a Pride flag on Parliament
Hill to recognize Canadians who have worked to secure equal rights for lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender individuals and to celebrate sexual and gender
diversity.

Last month, the Liberal government introduced legislation (Bill C-16) to update
the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code that would make it illegal
to discriminate on the basis of gender identity or expression.

The history of Pride Month and why June was chosen as a month of celebrations
can be traced back to the 1969 Stonewall riots in Manhattan's Greenwich Village,
when members of the LGBT community held violent demonstrations against a police
raid at the Stonewall Inn on June 28, 1969. Yet surprisingly, nearly 50 years
after the Stonewall riots, the U.S. continues to lag behind Canada when it comes
to equal treatment for same-sex couples under the tax laws.

Canada's Income Tax Act was formally amended in 2001 to recognize same-sex
commonlaw partners. Under our tax law, "common-law partners" are defined as two
people, regardless of sex, who cohabit in a conjugal relationship and have done
so for a continuous period of at least one year. As a result, commonlaw couples,
including same-sex couples, are treated exactly the same under our tax law as
spouses who are legally married.

Perhaps the greatest tax advantage of this treatment occurs when one partner in
a marriage or common-law relationship passes away. The Tax Act allows all your
property to be automatically "rolled over" to your surviving spouse or partner
on a tax-deferred basis. By leaving all your assets to a spouse or partner upon
death, you can avoid paying current capital gains tax on the deemed disposition
of your assets at fair market value as of the date of death. In addition, you
can defer taxes on the fair market value income inclusion of your RRSP or RRIF,
which, absent a rollover, would be fully taxable as income on your final tax
return.

The U.S., however, does not recognize same-sex commonlaw partners as equal under
its tax laws. Take the recent case, decided last month, of a New Jersey man
whose partner of 31 years passed away six days before their planned wedding.

The New Jersey Tax Court ruled that the couple wasn't entitled to claim an
estate tax deduction as a surviving spouse because the couple was neither
married nor in a civil union. This cost the couple just over US$100,000 in New
Jersey estate tax when the man died.

While the couple registered as a same-sex domestic partnership under New
Jersey's Domestic Partnership Act (DPA) back in 2004, that wasn't enough to
qualify the surviving partner to be treated as a spouse for estate tax purposes.

"Although the plaintiffand decedent were eligible to enter into either a civil
union or a marriage as of the date of the decedent's death, they did neither,"
the judge wrote. "This court must apply the DPA as it is written, not as this
court thinks it ought to be written, or as plaintiffwould prefer it to be
written."

Although Canada doesn't have an estate tax, the harsh tax treatment upon the
death of one partner in a same-sex couple would never have occurred under
Canadian tax laws, giving us another reason to celebrate this June. Jamie
Golombek, CPA, CA, CFP, CLU, TEP is the Managing Director, Tax Estate Planning
with CIBC Wealth Strategies Group in Toronto. Jamie.Golombek@cibc.com
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             295 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


             National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing (Canada)

                             June 11, 2016 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

We should be proud of our tax laws

BYLINE: Jamie Golombek, Financial Post

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. N6

LENGTH: 525 words


June 2016 marks Canada's first Pride Month, which was officially launched on
June 1 when Prime Minister Just in Trudeau raised a Pride flag on Parliament
Hill.

Last month, the Liberal government introduced legislat i on (Bill C-16) to
update the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code to make it illegal to
discriminate on the basis of gender identity or expression.

The history of Pride Month - and why June was chosen as a month of celebrations
- can be traced back to the 1969 Stonewall riots in Manhattan's Greenwich
Village, when members of the LGBT community held violent demonstrations against
a police raid at the Stonewall Inn on June 28 of that year.

Yet surprisingly, nearly 50 years after the Stonewall riots, the U.S. continues
to lagbehind Canada when it comes to equal treatment for same sex couples under
the tax laws.

Canada's Income Tax Actwas formally amended in 2001 to recognize same-sex
commonlaw partners. Under our tax law, "common-law partners" are defined as two
people, regardless of sex, who cohabit in a conjugal relationship and have done
so for a continuous period of at least one year. As a result, common-law
couples, including same-sex couples, are treated the same under tax law as
spouses who are legally married.

Perhaps the greatest tax advantage of this treatment occurs when one partner in
a marriage or common-law relationship passes away. The Tax Act allows all the
deceased property to be automatically "rolled over" to the surviving spouse or
partner on a tax-deferred basis. This includes not only non-registered
investments, like stocks, bonds and mutual funds, but also RRSPs or RRIFs.

By leaving all your assets to a spouse or partner upon death, you can avoid
paying current capital gains tax on the deemed disposition of your assets at
fair market value as of the date of death. In addition, you can defer taxes on
the fair market value income inclusion of your RRSP or RRIF, which, absent a
rollover, would be fully taxable as income on your final tax return.

The U.S., however, does not recognize same-sex commonlaw partners as equal under
its tax laws. Take the case, decided last month, of a New Jersey man whose
partner of 31 years passed away six days before their planned wedding.

The New Jersey Tax Court ruled that the surviving partner wasn't entitled to
claim an estate tax deduction as a spouse because the couple was neither married
nor in a civil union. This cost just over US$100,000 in New Jersey estate tax
when the man died. While the couple registered as a same-sex domestic
partnerships under New Jersey's Domestic Partnership Act back in 2004, that
wasn't enough to qualify the surviving partner to be treated as a spouse for
estate tax purposes.

Although Canada doesn't have an estate tax, the harsh tax treatment upon the
death of one partner in a same-sex couple would never have occurred under
Canadian tax laws, giving us another reason to celebrate this June.

Jamie Golombek, CPA, CA, CFP, CLu,TEp is the managing director, tax estate
planning with CIBC Wealth Strategies Group in Toronto. Jamie.golombek@cibc.com
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Sun Media Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             296 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday
                                National Edition

China over a barrel

BYLINE: David Frum, National Post

SECTION: ISSUES & IDEAS; David Frum; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 743  words


With global markets tanking and unemployment soaring, Canadians are pinching
their pennies. But as National Post contributors explain in a new week-long
series, economic doom and gloom has its upside.

The editors ask: There must be a silver lining in this recession-- can you find
it?

With the price of silver touching nearly US$14 an ounce, up 23% since the start
of the year, a silver lining may no longer be realistic. Perhaps a coating, or
maybe a dusting.

For the inveterately optimistic, though, here is a thought about a positive side
effect of the world's present adversity: Today's crisis creates an opportunity
to build a freer and more open world economy.

As China has grown to become the world's number three economy, Beijing's bad
trade practices have provoked intensifying protectionism. China sells unsafe
products, violates patents and copyrights and manipulates its currency to
advantage its exporters. Foreign businesses cannot count on justice in China's
corrupt courts, creating opportunities for local businesses to cheat partners
and investors.

China's machinations have provoked serious global trade tensions --and wrecked
hopes of negotiating better trade rules. The Doha trade round that began in 2001
broke down in final failure in the summer of 2008. Openly protectionist
politicians such as Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio did well in the U. S.
congressional elections of 2006. Both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama sounded
protectionist themes in 2008. And now the new Democratic Congress has recklessly
inserted "Buy American" measures into its big new stimulus.

If the world is to sustain open trade -- and progress to the even freer trade we
need for future prosperity -- China will have to change its ways.

But until now, China has shrugged off all international pressure. China felt
rich, powerful, immune to pressure, without any need to compromise.

That was last year.

As the U. S. economy has slumped, China has plunged into the worst economic
crisis since it opened its markets in the 1970s. Exports plunged 17.5% in the
month of January alone. The government estimates that 20 million workers have
left the cities to return home to their rural villages in the past few months.
Forty percent pay cuts have become common in Chinese factories -- and in the
economic powerhouse province of Guangdong, adjoining Hong Kong, perhaps
one-fifth of all factories have closed.

This economic distress presents a political challenge to the Chinese state. In
1989, the demands of a few thousand students led to a crisis at Tiananmen. The
state survived because the economy was growing strongly, and most people
preferred the security of the status quo to the risks of regime change. Now that
security has vanished.

A year ago, Chinese leaders enjoyed speaking at international conferences about
the "end of the American era." Very abruptly, they are looking at the end of
their own careers, their own fortunes -- and given China's history of political
violence, very possibly their lives.

This is the moment to make the offer that China's leaders cannot refuse: more
open access to the world's export markets in exchange for better Chinese
treatment of its customers and investors, better health and safety enforcement,
fairer courts and a less manipulated currency.

Martin Wolf of the Financial Times argues that the root of today's crisis is the
imbalance between the Chinese and U. S. economies: The United States consumed
too much and saved too little; China consumed too little and saved too much; and
bankers then made fortunes financing American consumption with Chinese money.
The world needs more American exporting and more American saving -- which in
turn means that China has to change its behaviour as much as America.

Why should China do that? Because the gun is pointed much more directly at them
than at the United States. The U. S. can gain a few months of hope and renewal
by electing a new president. China, without elections, must either deliver
results to its people or face street riots.

If the United States offered China a free trade agreement like the one it has
with Canada and Mexico, that would be a dramatic gesture that would make big
news in China and maybe buy the leadership some time to make reforms. They might
pay a high price in return for that relief. Or maybe not. But there will never
be a more propitious moment to try.

---

MONDAY

Lorne Gunter

'More parking spaces at the mall! I'm all for it'

©David Frum dfrum@aei.org

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The virtues of austerity

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2009 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             297 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            April 27, 2013 Saturday
                                Toronto Edition

Route was staging ground for terrorism 150 years ago; N.Y.C. to Toronto; 1864
plot to burn down Manhattan

BYLINE: Tristin Hopper, National Post

SECTION: TORONTO; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 1140 words


Almost 150 years before the rail corridor between Toronto and New York City
became the centre piece to an alleged plot by Islamic terrorists to derail a VIA
rail train, it was the staging ground to terrorism of a different kind: An 1864
hatched-in-Canada conspiracy to burn down Manhattan and change the course of the
American Civil War.

But it would not be sharp-eyed Mounties or an alert Imam that would thwart this
19th century bid at cross-border sabotage - but the "bungling manner" of the
Toronto-based men tasked with carrying it out.

It was among "the most fiendish and inhuman acts known in modern times,"
declared The New York Times on Nov. 27, 1864, two days after the attack.

Six men, all young Southern officers handpicked by Confederate authorities in
Richmond, Va., had hopped a train from Toronto to New York armed with matches
and bottles of "Greek Fire," an unstable, explosive liquid.

Striking hotels and landmarks, the saboteurs had peppered the metropolis with
fire. And then, as New Yorkers took stock of the damage, they slipped aboard
trains back to their Canadian hideout.

Canada (then British North America), for all its reputation as a bastion of
anti-slavery during the Civil War, was a well-known haunt for agents of the
slave-holding South.

In 1864, delegates at the Charlottetown Conference were in the midst of hashing
out the first terms of Canadian confederation when they were interrupted by news
that a band of Southern raiders had used Quebec as a base to loot the bank
vaults of St. Albans, Vt. Even the actor John Wilkes Booth, in the months before
he fired a single derringer shot into the head of Abraham Lincoln, was stalking
the streets of Montreal.

Toronto, in particular, had been selected by Confederate authorities to be the
headquarters of its guerilla operations against the union. Operating quite
openly out of Toronto's Queen's Hotel, seasoned Confederate officers sent out
cross-border spy missions and drew up plans to spring Southern prisoners of war
from union custody, launch raids against Great Lakes shipping, inspire Southern
sympathizers into armed insurrection or even poison the New York City water
supply.

In the fall of 1864, conspirators set their sights on mass arson. Led by Colonel
Robert Martin, agents would take a train to New York, book rooms in the city's
most famous hotels, stack up the room's furniture, douse it in flame and then
calmly walk away as the building became engulfed in fire.

Needless to say, there were few military gains to lighting up a string of New
York hotels. The objective was pure terror: Break the morale of a war-weary
public and inspire a quick, negotiated end to the War Between the States.

In the plotters' wildest dreams, they imagined their tiny arson spree would
provide such a distraction that they would be able to spring a few thousand
nearby Confederate prisoners of war, raid a few federal arsenals and then stage
a full-fledged attack in the centre of the union heartland.

Most of all, the men were likely motivated by revenge. As union armies chewed up
the cities of the South in a final push to victory, Southerners wanted to "bring
the war" to New York.

We wanted the people of the North to understand there are two sides to this war

"We wanted the people of the North to understand there are two sides to this war
and they can't be rolling in wealth and comfort while we in the South are
bearing all the hardships," later wrote one of the plotters, Robert Kennedy, as
he faced a hangman's noose after later being captured by the union.

The original plan was to strike on Election day, but the saboteurs arrived to
find that the city had been flooded with troops and gunboats in anticipation of
violence.

It was only the previous year that the city had been seized in the devastating
New York City draft riots, and U.S. authorities had already received word from a
double agent of a "great conspiracy afoot" in the "British provinces" to set
fire to border cities on Election day.

So, after two weeks of lounging around Manhattan on the Confederacy's dime,
taking in the sights of a city they intended to destroy ("it was a period of
enjoyment ... in most respects," one would report later), the saboteurs sprung
in-to action on the night of November 25.

Nineteen hotels were struck, as well as a hay barge, a stairwell at P.T.
Barnum's American Museum and a theatre next door to where John Wilkes Booth and
his two brothers were delivering a charity performance of Julius Caesar.

Amazingly, in an era before sprinklers and fireproofing, the fires were tamped
out almost immediately, resulting in total damages no larger than a few thousand
dollars. "There was no panic. There was no uprising," reads an official CIA
account of the attack.

"So far as we could learn the programme had been carried out, but it appeared
that all had made a failure," concluded conspirator John Headley in his 1906
memoirs. "It seemed to us that there was something wrong with our Greek fire."

As they would do in the wake of the various anarchist, Islamist and leftist
terrorist attacks that would strike the city in the next century and a half, New
Yorkers reveled in their ability to rise above the attack -although local media
could not resist a bit of doom saying.

These Yankees will learn what it is to incur the Enmity of a proud and chivalric
People

Harper's Weekly ran an illustrated account of the attack. One of its most
notable images is a bearded Southern gentleman, cloaked in shadows, grinning as
he draws a match towards a pile of hotel furniture. "These Yankees will learn
what it is to incur the Enmity of a proud and chivalric People," he says in a
caption.

Had the conspirators simply lit all their fires at same time, concluded The New
York Times, "the fire would probably have gained so great a headway that before
assistance could have been obtained, the best portion of the city would have
been laid in ashes." In December of 1864, mere months before the Civil War's
end, the united States saw its last act of attempted sabotage to emerge out of
what would soon be Canada.

In a plot echoed by recent terror allegations, Confederate naval officer John
Yates Beall was caught trying to derail trains outside of Buffalo.

"I protest against this execution," he said just before his February, 1865
hanging in New York City. For Canada's part, four years of living next to a
nation torn apart by civil strife would forever shape the country's future.

For one, it got most delegates on board with Canada's eventual model of tight
federal authority - a counterpoint to the loosely knit model of "state's rights"
that inaugural Prime Minister John A. Macdonald had pegged as America's "great
source of weakness."

A staid lesson, perhaps, but as Macdonald prophesied, it may well have been the
lynchpin that prevented any Canadian eruptions of "unhappy war."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Jacob Thompson was the Confederate Secret Service commissioner in
Toronto who ordered the attack on N.Y.C.;;  New York City looking south from St.
Paul steeple. Almost 150 years ago, the rail corridor between New York City and
Toronto was used to carry out arson attacks.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             298 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                              May 11, 2015 Monday
                                National Edition

People aren't equations

BYLINE: John Robson, National Post

SECTION: ISSUES &; IDEAS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 832 words


What are we going to do for the poor? In recent years, that question, if asked
at all, has generally been framed as "What are we going to do to the poor?"
Mostly politicians are full of what they'll do for the middle class. Which might
be just as well for the poor, given the alternatives.

Consider a recent New York Times piece hailing a promising new form of social
engineering. Well, an old form, actually. Long before the coming of the modern
welfare state in the 1960s, we learned that with enough good intentions and
money, we can easily make a bad situation worse by misunderstanding the poor.

The key mistake is to overlook that they are people, not things. They make
choices, good or bad, rather than just reacting passively to well-intentioned
hectoring and manipulation.

The Times noted that after the early 1990s Los Angeles riots, the U.S. Congress
created a Moving to Opportunity (MTO) program of vouchers to help poor families
move to better neighbourhoods, awarded randomly so researchers could study the
recipient human units to see what changes they underwent. But the results "were
deeply disappointing."

Adults didn't seem to make more money and kids didn't seem to do better in
school in their new neighbourhoods. "The program's apparent failure," the Times
said, "has haunted social scientists and policy-makers ... Now, however, a large
new study is about to overturn the findings of Moving to Opportunity."

This time for sure, huh? But one study does not a policy revolution make, or a
counter-revolution. This massive one by two Harvard economists did find you'd
rather grow up in some neighbourhoods than others (including, unsurprisingly,
Baltimore). But we all knew that. The controversial part is the Times's blithe
conclusion that the paper proves if we simply transplant people from bad places
to good they will flourish by osmosis.

Now the study itself is very interesting ... if you like mathematics. Which we
do today in "social sciences" consumed by physics envy. Authors Raj Chetty and
Nathaniel Hendren provide 145 pages of equations like:

Cov(.i,m.odp,s(i)X) > 0. Cov(.i,m.odps'X, m.odp,s(i))>0

Followed by 80 pages of justification of mathematical technique with more Greek
letters than a fraternity row plus 60 appendix pages of charts and tables, all
spiced up with words like "orthogonal."

I have no doubt they are first rate statisticians. But I doubt the enthusiasts
at the Times understood all the algebra and calculus. And I flatly deny that
poverty can be solved by an equation even if it's two lines long and estimates
coefficients to three decimal places.

The fundamental problem is that humans are not objects to be manipulated for
social or research ends, like molecules of copper sulphate that, subjected to a
precisely determined combination of temperature, pressure and other chemical
compounds, will undergo reactions predictable to three decimal places. We are
moral agents.

We make choices, for complex reasons often inaccessible to outsiders;
inaccessible not only to disinterested researchers but also to those deeply
concerned to help them make better choices. So yes, obviously some
neighbourhoods are much harder to raise kids in. But we didn't need mathematics
to know it and mathematics can't tell us anything useful about how they arise or
what to do about it.

The reason moving to a better neighbourhood often works is character. The parent
or parents choose to move there, and live like the people there, often primarily
from concern for their children. Indeed, the kinds of parents who deliberately
move their kids away from bad influences would probably do a better job of
parenting even if they did not or could not move.

A few decades back when some social conservatives were pondering ways to make
people behave better, libertarian Lawrence W. Reed adapted a phrase from
preacher Billy Sunday to retort "Forcing a person to go to church doesn't make
him religious any more than forcing him to stand in a garage makes him a car."
The same is true of moving someone into, or out of, suburbia, as it was of
busing students to improve racial harmony by making people act as though they
lived together and liked each other.

The researchers do suggest that earlier studies of the MTO failed to look at
younger children who, they say, experience the beneficial effects of better
neighbourhoods longer in an essentially linear way. And perhaps some people who
experienced a stroke of good luck in being plucked from a wretched slum did
react by suddenly going hey, I better not blow this one. But it's what happens
inside, or doesn't, that's crucial. And it's not susceptible to mathematically
precise manipulation by experts.

If, that is, you believe there's anyone home inside the watery bag of
electrochemical reactions materialists call a human being.

Even a poor one.

John Robson is a journalist and documentary filmmaker in Ottawa. He teaches
history at the University of Ottawa. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc.
All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             299 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             August 12, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

A nation of excuses

BYLINE: Shawn Storey, The Province

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 55  words


Rioters in London have already been charged, but over here we are still
investigating the Stanley Cup riots.

The U.S. has just imprisoned child molester and pedophile Warren Jeffs for life,
and we are still "studying" the polygamy laws.

Only in Canada do we seem to allow excuse after excuse for these criminals.

Shawn Storey, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             300 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            September 2, 2012 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Three riot suspects face extradition from U.S

BYLINE: Justin McElroy, Sunday Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Justin Mcelroy; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 357 words


Vancouver police have located three university students suspected of taking part
in the June 2011 Stanley Cup riots - but getting them to court will be a
different story.

They're in the U.S. and have shown no inclination to face their charges.

"I can't think of another example in Canadian history where we've charged people
with these types of offences and they've fled," Const. Brian Montague said
Saturday, adding that the three were told by police in their area that they
would be arrested if they return to Canada.

"It's safe to say that these three are thinking that possibly things might go
away," Montague said. "We want to remind them it's not going to go away. They
are fully aware to get in touch with us and do the right thing."

The three students are Peter Jensen White, Dakota Schlag and Nigel Li.

White and Schlag, both Americans, were students at the University of B.C. at the
time of the riots but have since moved to Alaska and Washington, respectively.
Li is Canadian but is believed to be at a university in Illinois.

Montague said an application for extradition was possible for White and Schlag
but has yet to be filed.

"Participating in a riot is a serious offence. It's an indictable offence, and,
as far as extradition goes, that's ultimately up to Crown counsel," he said.

Gary Botting, a Vancouver lawyer who specializes in extradition law, said it was
likely an extradition application would be successful.

"Extradition is far more common than most people realize," Botting said.

"Canada could seek extradition from the United States. . . . It seems to me the
Stanley Cup riots has North American ramifications.

"Canada has generally co-operated with the United States, and they would
reciprocate. It's not that often that Canada asks the United States for people
to return, but in this case, it would seem to be appropriate."

Botting said the process could take up to two years, but he advised the students
to accept their fate before that.

"University students often have these idealistic notions of what should apply to
them and shouldn't," he said.

"They're not above the law."

jmcelroy@ theprovince.com

twitter.com/ j_mcelroy

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             301 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday
                                 First Edition

Trump's rise poses a democratic dilemma;
COMMENT

SECTION: OPINION; Leaders; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 579 words


The West regularly lauds and supports people power movements that assert
democracy over autocracy in less developed nations. Now the epicentre of Western
democracy, the United States, is experiencing two opposing people power
movements at once - and it is difficult to see the positives.

"I think you'd have riots. I think you'd have riots. I'm representing a
tremendous, many, many millions of people," Donald Trump said this week
following his victories in four more state primaries.

The brashness and widely recognised bigotry of the billionaire's likely but not
inevitable Republican party nomination for the presidential election on November
8 has emboldened at least one opposing people power movement.

"It's become clear that his political juggernaut is not going away and poses a
threat to the country," said Ben Wikler, Washington director of the civil
society group MoveOn.org which has been funded by left-wing billionaire George
Soros. "It needs to be confronted in a fundamental way that goes beyond the
election."

Mr Wikler's comments came as Mr Trump was accused of running a neofacist-style
campaign akin to Germany in the 1930s, given his attacks on Mexicans, Muslims
and China, along with his advocation of the use of torture.

This conflict is much more than a culture war between a maverick right and the
far left of American politics.

The Trump ascendancy strikes at the heart of what American elections mean to
everyday people. Threats of riots and non-election retaliation are not civil
discourse and would not have been contemplated a year ago.

Whether Mr Trump could defeat likely Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton in a head
to head battle - polls suggest he will struggle - has become almost beside the
point. The challenge Mr Trump poses to the Republican Party's recent embrace of
rationalist economists and free trade is far more telling.

Ironically, the right-wing commentators who have stood up for the far right Tea
Party elements of the Republicans in the past are now backing Mr Trump whose
economic and social policies seem miles away.

Analysts see Mr Trump as tapping into discontent not among the wealthy
republican supporters but among lower income groups missing out on the American
dream and seeking scapegoats in China, Mexico and the Muslim world for their
misfortune. Upward social mobility in the US is difficult, welfare benefits are
hard to get and wages remain pitifully low. Mr Trump is in fact about bigger
government and less trade - the opposite of conventional Republican wisdom.

Yet Mr Trump's path to nomination continues apace. He thrashed mainstream choice
Marco Rubio in his home state of Florida and forced the Cuban-American out of
the race. Texan senator Ted Cruz and Ohio governor Mike Kasich remain, but both
come with risks. That leaves Mr Trump as hot favourite and a bevy of bewildered
mainstream politicians across the globe.

"Well, it's terrifying," Industry, Innovation and Science Minister Christopher
Pyne said on Thursday. "We are seeing in America these terrible rallies
occurring where the people are becoming violent. Now, democracy should be robust
but it certainly shouldn't be violent. And I think the Donald Trump phenomenon
is a real problem for the United States, making their democracy look kind of
weird."

As the Republican Party rips itself apart, and the nation talks riots and people
power backlashes, Mrs Clinton may be feeling more confident of victory, while
the world watches, increasingly nervously, on.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             302 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 30, 2008 Sunday
                                 First Edition

EU split on Games boycott

BYLINE: Mark John, Paul Taylor, Brdo, Slovenia

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 427 words


A RIFT has emerged in the European Union over how to respond to China's
suppression of Tibetan protests, with divergences over whether ministers should
attend the opening of the Beijing Olympics.

Britain, host of the 2012 Olympic Games, said Prime Minister Gordon Brown would
definitely be present, after French President Nicolas Sarkozy publicly mooted
the possibility of a boycott.

Germany said Chancellor Angela Merkel and Foreign Minister Frank-Walter
Steinmeier did not plan to attend the opening ceremony in August but stressed
there was no Tibet connection and that this was usual procedure for Germany.

"I don't think we will have a boycott on our agenda," EU foreign policy chief
Javier Solana said as foreign ministers of the 27-nation bloc began a two-day
meeting due to discuss a joint response to the events in Tibet.

Several EU ministers took refuge in a wait-and-see position. European External
Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner said there were still five months
to go and a judgement could depend on the circumstances in Tibet and on media
freedom.

China's quashing of the pro-independence protests in Tibet has prompted mounting
calls from human rights campaigners and intellectuals for European leaders to
stay away from the Games.

Mr Steinmeier said neither he, Ms Merkel nor the sports minister had in any case
planned to go to the opening ceremony, telling reporters: "In that sense, there
has been nothing to cancel." "Saying 'no' to the Olympics just to ease one's
conscience helps neither the people in China nor the sports federations," he
said.

British Foreign Secretary David Miliband told reporters: "We are fully engaged
in supporting the Olympics. We want to see it as a success, and I think it's
right that the prime minister represents us."

Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt said his country's sports minister would
attend the inauguration to support the Swedish team. He dismissed the
effectiveness of boycotts.

"I remember back in 1980 when people thought they were going to force the
Soviets out of Afghanistan by boycotting the Olympics (in Moscow). It had no
influence whatsoever," he said.

Some senior EU politicians, including European Parliament president Hans-Gert
Poettering, have mooted a boycott of the prestigious opening ceremony.

The official EU line so far has been to call for restraint and urge China to
open a dialogue on cultural rights with the Dalai Lama, whom Beijing has accused
of inciting the riots.

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said she opposed a boycott to avoid
insulting the Chinese people.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Lausanne, Switzerland, raise Tibetan flags during
a demonstration against the Beijing Olympics. PICTURE: REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             303 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Market knows best when making a punt on the future

BYLINE: STUART WASHINGTON

SECTION: BUSINESS; Opinion & Analysis; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 870 words


Say you had $1 in November 2007 and you decided to invest in the Australian
sharemarket. Bad call. You - and all the other investors in the major Australian
index - would have watched with appalled fascination as that $1 transformed into
less than 50Â¢ when the market fell to its lowest point in March 2009. Markets
being what they are, the sharemarket came roaring back. So much so that your
less-than-50Â¢ would have turned into a relatively handsome 74Â¢ at the most
recent peak.

Then your 74Â¢ - three-quarters of your original dollar - would have basically
stayed around that mark for the best part of two years. On Friday your imaginary
dollar closed at 66Â¢. Feeling like a winner yet? Feeling like your bold step of
taking the risk of being a long-term sharemarket investor has paid off? Your
dollar invested 3Â½ years ago is worth a third less than when you first "put it
to work", as the tireless spruikers of the market would have it. This is no
story of the magic of long-term sharemarket investing. Since 2007 there has been
no ever-spiralling path upwards. My question is not about whether you feel
ripped off by this situation. (And if you think this doesn't apply to you, think
again: the sharemarket portion of any superannuation nest egg you have almost
certainly tracked the above $1 pretty closely.) My question is whether, after
more than two years of tracking sideways, we should collectively stop pretending
the market is about to come roaring back? For at least two years the market -
which prides itself on being a predictor of future earnings - hasn't been able
to convince itself of a widespread recovery. And in all honesty, how could it?
The economy doesn't feel like a robust, diversified engine with a leaning
towards resources. Instead, it feels like a huge one-way bet on China's
continued growth, with miners working out new and innovative ways to dig up
resources and reduce the amount of taxes they are paying. For the miners, it's a
big party and they are in full song. The rest of the economy - and especially
the retailers - are left with the strained expression of a partygoer striving to
keep up festive appearances while simultaneously detecting the unmistakable
whiff of a fart. For in reality no one else has been invited to the miners'
party. The dollar soars, other export industries are slowly strangled. Consumer
confidence in anything other than their next overseas holiday falls away. And
just Google "Greece" and "debt", or "China" and "riots", or "US" and
"unemployment" for some really cheerful reading. The market, in its
dollar-driven fashion, senses and embodies these things. It's not without reason
that the famed value investor Ben Graham used to personalise the market as "Mr
Market". In his personification, Graham portrays Mr Market as prone to wild mood
swings - sometimes willing to buy at a high price (think 2007) and sometimes
willing to sell at a low price (think 2009). Because of these swings, Graham's
view of the market was to understand it was there to serve you, rather than
inform you. While not in any way questioning this personification, the market is
also deadly smart. In an exercise with his students, the Legg Mason chief
strategist and Columbia University professor Michael Mauboussin asks his class
to predict the outcome of that year's Oscars across the key categories.
Mauboussin's students are investment bankers in training, and take any challenge
from a well-regarded fund manager such as Mauboussin very, very seriously. After
the Oscars, Mauboussin then ranks the accuracy of the answers from the 60-odd
students, and also includes a combined class assessment of the Oscars outcomes.
In one exercise, only one student out of the 60 beat the aggregated "market"
knowledge of the Oscars results predicted by the students in the class. Put
another way, the market of students voting for their choice in that year's
Oscars predicted the results of the Oscars more accurately than every other
student except one. Now, that single student may well go on to have a stellar
career in funds management. But for the rest, the class "market" beat the other
59 or so soundly in the simple exercise of predicting the Oscars. The market is,
at its simplest, a great big extension of the Oscars prediction exercise.
Thousands of people each day are predicting what price shares should be bought
and sold for. It is for the immense capability and knowledge of the market that
a day trader's "Lone Ranger" insistence on his or her ability to beat the market
on a daily basis is genuinely puzzling. Equally puzzling is a CFD enterprise's
promise to traders of instant riches, if only the traders pit their wits against
the market. Good luck with that. But hopefully you are super smart - or have
deep pockets. Graham's diagnosis of the market's manic depressive tendencies may
still stand. The market may, in the short term, be overly depressed about future
earnings in Australia. But in the present environment, it's easier to see the
market as performing its role of being a predictor of future earnings. The
collective wisdom of the market is not offering good news because it doesn't see
much good news. And that's not much good for your 66Â¢.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             304 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                             Fourth Drop-in Edition

Police could have gone in harder, says Boris;
ENGLISH RIOTS

BYLINE: Julia May

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; International News; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 670 words


LONDON: The blame game over the riots has begun, with the mayor of London, Boris
Johnson, criticising the police response. Returning from holiday in the US, Mr
Johnson said they should have used greater force and made more arrests. "You've
got to ask yourself, could the police have gone in harder, could there have been
a more significant display of intolerance by society and the police about what
was going on," Mr Johnson told BBC Radio. "What's happened in our city has been
a massive own goal."

On Tuesday, however, Johnson had himself been pilloried for his slow response by
angry residents in Clapham Junction, forcing him to abandon a press conference.
The riots come in a bad year for the Metropolitan Police, following the
resignations last month of its commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, and the
assistant commissioner, John Yates. London remained tense but relatively calm as
the presence of 16,000 police, some from Wales, and local vigilantes prevented a
repeat of the fiery chaos of Monday night. Meanwhile, the violence has moved on
to Manchester, Liverpool, Nottingham and the Midlands. Detectives in Birmingham
arrested a man on suspicion of murder after three Asian men were knocked down
and killed, reportedly while trying to protect their community from looters. One
witness told the BBC: "A car came flying, took out three of the guys. They flew
into mid-air." In Manchester, a shopping centre was evacuated on Tuesday
afternoon as rioters rampaged through the city centre, smashing shop fronts,
stealing goods and setting buildings on fire. The retail targets were similar to
those attacked in London as gangs went after alcohol, mobile phones, sports
gear, electronic goods and jewellery. The Bishop of Manchester, Nigel McCulloch,
deplored the violence, which extended to Salford, west of the city, but said the
areas were quickly getting back to normal. He called for those who have suffered
to be "cared for and compensated". As in London on Tuesday, civilian clean-up
teams quickly organised and were seen sweeping and cleaning the streets. Gary
Shewan, Greater Manchester assistant chief constable, told a press conference:
"This has been senseless violence and senseless criminality of a scale that I
have never experienced in my career." In Liverpool, police arrested more than 50
people over violence that started when looters tried to break into a cash
machine using a mechanical digger. Four fire engines were put out of service
after being attacked. In Nottingham, a police station was fire-bombed and in
Gloucester about 60 people took part in "unco-ordinated copycat acts". On
Tuesday, the Prime Minister, David Cameron, opened the possibility that police
would use water cannons or rubber bullets. Police said about 770 people had been
arrested since the violence began on Saturday. Magistrates courts in London were
forced to sit through Tuesday night as they attempted to deal with a huge influx
of defendants. The deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police,
Steve Kavanagh, defended the force for relying on traditional measures and said
police numbers in London would be maintained for as long as necessary. He also
warned against vigilantism after groups of men, many drunk, took to the streets
of north London to ward off rioters. One man told the BBC: "We're the Enfield
anti-rioting squad. You want to riot us, we'll riot you. We're here to smash you
up." In other areas of London, groups organised into patrols, often along ethnic
lines. "The Met's not here so tough luck, we'll take the law into our own
hands," a local man, Ajit Singh, told the BBC. MPs were more visible in the
media yesterday, with ministers rejecting claims spending cuts were to blame for
the riots. The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, put the emphasis on bad parenting
rather than the economic situation. "We need to look at the underlying causes
for the violence. The causes are not simple, they're complex," he told the BBC.
MPs were preparing to return to Parliament for one day today.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             305 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Three die as violence spreads across country;
ENGLISH RIOTS

BYLINE: Julia May

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; International News; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 661 words


LONDON: The unrest in Britain has turned murderous as rioting swept north from
London, leaving three men dead and triggering extraordinary scenes of violence
in Manchester, Liverpool, Nottingham and the Midlands. London was tense but
relatively calm as the presence of 16,000 police, some from Wales, and local
vigilantes prevented a repeat of the fiery chaos of Monday night. Detectives in
Birmingham arrested a man on suspicion of murder after three Asian men were
knocked down and killed, reportedly while trying to protect their community from
looters. Police were deployed to Birmingham City Hospital as about 200 relatives
congregated.

One witness broke down as he told the BBC: "A car came flying, took out three of
the guys. They flew into mid-air. The car went up on to the kerb and then it was
gone. Six to seven seconds and it was all over, and three of my boys haven't
survived in hospital." In Manchester, a shopping centre was evacuated on Tuesday
afternoon as rioters rampaged through the city centre, smashing shop fronts,
stealing goods and setting buildings on fire. The retail targets were similar to
those attacked in London as gangs went after alcohol, mobile phones, sports
gear, electronic goods and jewellery. The Bishop of Manchester, Nigel McCulloch,
deplored the violence, which extended to Salford, west of the city, but said the
areas were quickly getting back to normal. He called for those who have suffered
to be "cared for and compensated". As in London on Tuesday, civilian clean-up
teams quickly organised and were seen sweeping and cleaning the streets. Gary
Shewan, Greater Manchester assistant chief constable, told a press conference:
"This has been senseless violence and senseless criminality of a scale that I
have never experienced in my career." In Liverpool, police arrested more than 50
people over violence that started when looters tried to break into a cash
machine using a mechanical digger. Four fire engines were put out of service
after being attacked. In Nottingham, a police station was fire-bombed and in
Gloucester about 60 people took part in disturbances described as unco-ordinated
copycat acts. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister, David Cameron, left open the
possibility that police would use water cannon or rubber bullets, but these
means were not deployed. Police said 768 people had been arrested since the
violence began on Saturday. The deputy assistant commissioner of the
Metropolitan Police, Steve Kavanagh, defended the force for relying on
traditional measures and said police numbers in London would be maintained for
as long as necessary. He also warned against vigilantism after groups of men,
many drunk, took to the streets of north London to ward off rioters. One man
told the BBC: "We're the Enfield anti-rioting squad. You want to riot us, we'll
riot you. We're here to smash you up." In other areas of London, groups
organised into patrols, often along ethnic lines. "The Met's not here so tough
luck, we'll take the law into our own hands," a local man, Ajit Singh, told the
BBC. The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, called on the government to reconsider
plans to cut police numbers. His intervention came a day after he was heckled by
shopkeepers in Clapham, south London, for waiting three days before returning
from his holiday. MPs were much more visible on the streets and in the media
yesterday, with ministers rejecting claims that spending cuts were to blame for
the strife. The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, put the emphasis on bad parenting
rather than the economic situation. "We need to look at the underlying causes
for the violence. The causes are not simple, they're complex," he told the BBC.
Mr Cameron was set to chair a second meeting of the government's COBRA emergency
committee yesterday morning and MPs were preparing to return to Parliament for
one day today. After Cameron addresses MPs, the Chancellor, George Osborne, will
comment on the economic impact of the riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOUR PHOTOS: BIRMINGHAM LONDON MANCHESTER LIVERPOOL Clockwise from top
left ... police investigate the scene where three menwere killed after being hit
by a car in Birmingham; London mayor Boris Johnson visits the clean-up effort in
Clapham; the burnt out shell of a caravan in Liverpool; and fire rips through a
Manchester store. Photos:AP,Reuters,AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             306 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                                 June 15, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Share all your stories about the strike and riots with us

BYLINE: Tim L Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 473 words


WITH the centenary of the Llanelli Railway Strike Uprising of 1911 fast
approaching, the Star is keen to ensure our readers are fully up to speed with
the significance of those historic events.

Tim Evans, a founder member of the 1911 Llanelli Strike Committee, has kindly
agreed to pen a weekly column in the lead-up to August's centenary celebrations
in the town. Here is his latest: "OFFICIAL" history, as we are taught it in
schools and as we see it on television, is the story of a tiny minority of
so-called "great men" and the odd great woman.

It is the narrative of a privileged elite of royals, admirals, generals,
emperors and financiers. History is there to tell us about the adventures of our
ruling class.

And most of the time it is written by people who are sympathetic to this class
and are fully paid up to its aims and objectives - historians like Niall
Ferguson and Andrew Roberts. History sees working people as the passive
recipients of events, as consumers of products not shapers of history.

The playwright Bertolt Brecht wrote a poem called Questions From A Worker Who
Reads. It asks pertinent questions about the way we talk about history: "Who
built Thebes of the 7 Gates? In the books you will read the names of kings.

Did the kings haul up the lumps of rock? ...The young Alexander conquered India.

Was he alone? Caesar defeated the Gauls.

Did he not even have a cook with him? ...Frederick the 2nd won the 7 Years War.

Who else won it? Every page a victory. Who cooked the feast for the victors?
Every 10 years a great man.

Who paid the bill?" Who indeed? In August 1911 the name of Llanelli was heard in
Whitehall, in the corridors of power, and what people were doing down here
suddenly mattered to MPs and civil servants and police chiefs and generals who
previously never even knew the place existed, and would have been happy never to
have known.

But war was coming, and as always it is not the "great men" but instead ordinary
people who have to fight and die. In 1911 the British ruling class did not know
if British workers would be ready to fight foreign workers or if they would turn
their guns on their own rulers. For a while in 1911 the answer to Brecht's
question "who pays the bill?" was still wide open.

1911, the history books tell us, is King George V, Winston Churchill, Lloyd
George, Asquith... but in Llanelli in August 1911 it was not these who made
history. In Llanelli it was the railway workers, tinplate workers and others
who, often living on poverty wages, shook off what the historian Edward Thompson
called "the condescension of history" and had the audacity to come out on the
streets and fight back. What were their names? We do not know. If you do - if
your parents or grandparents told you about the Llanelli strike and riots -
please get in touch via the Star. We want to hear your stories.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ What were the names of these people?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LLS


                          Copyright 2011 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                             307 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                              May 17, 2005 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

OVERREACTION OVER LIES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 483 words


The Islamic world stands constantly poised to believe the worst about America.

The American media seem determined to provide it.

Even at the expense of the truth.

Whether driven by competitive zeal or the elite media's left-wing eagerness to
embarrass the Bush administration and the U.S. military at every opportunity,
Newsweek certainly stepped into a mess with its May 9 edition - charging that
U.S. interrogators at Guantanamo Bay placed Qurans "on toilets, and in at least
one case flushed a holy book down the toilet."

The above quote set off anti-American riots across the Islamic world, including
nations with governments friendly to the United States, such as Afghanistan and
Pakistan. Sixteen deaths were reported in Afghanistan, along with scores of
injuries there and in other Muslim nations. At least one high-level Afghan
cleric declared a jihad, or holy war, against the United States.

U.S. military authorities furiously denied the report, saying that desecrating
the Islamic holy book was never an interrogation tool.

Finally, Newsweek, taking a page from Dan Rather's playbook, blamed an unnamed
source who now says he cannot be certain the Quran was involved, prompting
editor Mark Whitaker to write in the May 23 issue, "we regret that we got any
part of our story wrong, and extend our sympathies to victims of the violence
and to the U.S. soldiers caught in the midst."

Talk about being a day late and a dollar short. People have died, and the world
becomes a more deadly place, especially for Americans, and Newsweek says it
regrets it might have gotten part of its story wrong? Reporting any part of that
story was unconscionable.

The magazine is part of the traditional media, which are supposed to be more
accurate and reliable than talk shows and Internet blogs. The magazine's
inaccurate Bush-bashing discredits all traditional media. We just hope most
Americans are aware that "media" is a plural word; there is no single,
collective media. There's a plurality of them - some reliable, some biased, some
careless, some accountable and others not. Knowledgeable Americans should make
distinctions between the good ones and the bad ones. Even reporters at the same
media outlet can vary in credibility. At least we know where Newsweek stands.

The Islamic world's reaction to the magazine's reckless fiction was as
inexcusable as the lie itself. Civilized cultures don't gin up fatal riots
because something is written somewhere that they disapprove of. Civilized people
don't declare holy wars based on unverified reports.

And civilized religions can tell the difference between a lie and the truth -
yet most Muslims seem to reject Newsweek's apology for its false report.

Never mind the traditional media; will Muslims riot anytime an unpleasant
Internet rumor makes the rounds?

They'd rather believe the worst where America is concerned.

Sadly, they've got friends in the media, too.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation


                             308 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Oklahoman

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday
                                  City Edition

Stand firm against hatred

BYLINE: Edie Roodman

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 525 words


As predictable as an Oklahoma grass fire during an extremely dry winter, a
firestorm was ignited in the Muslim world after a Danish newspaper published
several cartoons associating Islam with violence. The Danish and Norwegian
consulates in Damascus were set on fire. In Jordan, the editor of a weekly
magazine was arrested for publishing some of the cartoons after calling on
Muslims to behave responsibly, noting that suicide bombers hurt Islam more than
cartoons. The Vatican called the cartoons an "unacceptable provocation."

State Department spokesman Kurtis Cooper said, "We ... respect freedom of the
press and expression but it must be coupled with press responsibility. Inciting
religious or ethnic hatreds in this manner is not acceptable." The cacophony of
vitriol against the publication of these cartoons is led, just as predictably,
by rogue entities such as Iran and Hamas.    Those of us who occasionally follow
the Arab media are dumbfounded. A cursory check of Arab newspapers reveals an
almost daily parade of ethnically and religiously offensive cartoons that place
the Danish cartoons in the "B-rated" category when it comes to malice, bigotry
and toxicity. One of the Danish cartoons depicts a Muslim with its turban shaped
like a bomb. Place that turban on Moses' head or on Uncle Sam's. Outrageous,
right? Well, abhorrent cartoons like these are a daily occurrence in even the
most respected newspapers of our Arab allies. As of late, I haven't seen throngs
of angry Israelis or Americans demonstrating in the streets and burning Arab
embassies in response.

What a sad commentary on the Islamic world that its boundless energy is
harnessed toward hatred rather than toward intellectual and cultural
enlightenment that it last magnificently displayed more than 1,200 years ago.
Whether it is Israel, blamed for the Palestinian woes; France, blamed for the
recent Paris riots; or the United States, blamed for anything else that has gone
awry in the Mideast, a knee-jerk reaction of the Islamic world to anything it
perceives as anti-Muslim is a firestorm of anti-Western invective and violence.
This reaction, sadly, is all too predictable.

The press must be responsible, no doubt. The Danish cartoons are tasteless, to
be sure. But for the Western world, especially for the U.S. State Department, to
issue unilateral condemnation of the cartoons without also strongly condemning
the violence that followed or the blatantly anti-Semitic and anti-Western
incitement in the Islamic press is inadequate and disingenuous at the very
least. Are we so embarrassed of our democratic heritage of free speech that we
are willing to sell it short to appease those who demonize us anyway?

One doesn't fight the fire of hatred by pouring gasoline on it -- inflammatory
cartoons in this case. One doesn't fight fire either by passively sitting by,
hoping for the dry grass to disappear. Like an Oklahoma firefighter, one should
be resolute, proactive and uncompromising when it comes to fighting hatred and
prejudice, the very fires that threaten our foundations.

Roodman is executive director of the Jewish Federation of Greater Oklahoma City.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

GRAPHIC: Graphic: (political cartoon) - STEVE BREEN, SAN DIEGO UNION-TRIBUNE
Edie Roodman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             309 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 27, 2007 Wednesday

Kosovo groups say protests, riots "inevitable" if status decision delayed

LENGTH: 1208 words


Text of report by Kosovo Albanian newspaper Express on 21 June

[Report by Nebih Maxhuni and Arben Hyseni: "Dark Predictions"]

Prishtina [Pristina], 20 Jun - Following the postponement of the Kosova [Kosovo]
status decision and the possible restarting of negotiations between Serbia and
Kosova, Kosovars' frustration with both their own and international leaders has
grown. Tensions and their dissatisfaction could result in uncontrolled
demonstrations.

The people's disappointment with the main players in this process has triggered
hysteria and a readiness to protest. Some organizations, such as those that have
emerged from the Kosova Liberation Army's [UCK] war or the Self-Determination
Movement, have said that protests and unrest on the streets of Kosova are
inevitable.

UN envoy Martti Ahtisaari has also added fuel to the fire by saying that it is
certain that Russia will use its veto at the UN Security Council regarding
Kosova's status. In addition, Kosova's people feel even more disgusted by the
draft resolution circulated by the United States and the European Union, which
officially envisages the postponement of Kosova's status for another four
months. According to analysts, this is the calm of the people before the storm.

The organizations that emerged from the war have announced that they will not be
indifferent to the current situation, the game with the status postponement, and
the start of new negotiations.

The Self-Determination Movement has made it clear that Kfor [Kosovo Force],
UNMIK [UN Interim Administrative Mission in Kosovo], and the ShPK [Kosovo Police
Service] will soon face protests.

In the meantime, the analysts believe that the predictions by the Kosovar
leaders regarding these issues have already failed and, they say, their failure
has led to disappointment among the people, who could express this
disappointment through protests or even riots.

"When policy dies, the street takes the matter into its own hands," Kosovar
analyst Lulezim Peci said, describing the current situation. And, he said, the
predictions of the Unity Team [Kosovo negotiating team] that the process of
determining Kosova's status would be resolved by the end of 2006, by the end of
May, or by the beginning of June this year have all proved wrong.

Peci said that if the decision on Kosova's status is postponed and negotiations
begin again, this would in effect mean the end of the option that has been
pursued so far.

"This increases the chances of a move in that direction, towards tension or
protests, because Kosova's institutions have lost all credibility in getting to
this point, and if this does not yield a result, I fear that events in Kosova
could take a different direction," he said.

The situation could heat up even more after the meeting between US President
George Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin in the White House on 1 and 2
July. Peci said that this meeting would bring no news for Kosovars. The
Self-Determination Movement would be unable to draw a lot of people for the 30
June protest because, Peci said, the movement lacks credibility.

For the organizations that have emerged from the UCK war, the only acceptable
status for Kosova is a sovereign Kosova.

In the event that the status decision is postponed, and it has already been
postponed for four months, officials from the UCK War Veterans' Association
[OVL] said that they would come out with a position on the issue after the
Steering Committee convened.

"We have warned the local and international players that ultimately the martyrs'
blood, the sacrifice of the people, and the UCK's war oblige us to have a fully
sovereign Kosova that includes Mitrovice [Kosovska Mitrovica]," Xhavit Jashari
from the UCK OVL said.

Jashari said that the date, the hour, or the month of Kosova's status resolution
did not matter that much. However, he said, the solution should in the end be
acceptable and favourable to Kosovars.

In the meantime, Self-Determination Movement activists said that they had found
a cure for UNMIK and Kfor, by resisting them with protests and demonstrations.
Kosova's status postponement will heighten tensions even more, which, according
to the Self-Determination Movement, are already on the verge of erupting.

"The status definition is going to be unfavourable for Kosova's people, because
these people will be denied the right to self-determination. And, in my opinion,
the main problem will be if the future solution is going to be less than the
people of Kosova deserve. If everything ends with a referendum and
self-determination, then everything will be all right, but this cannot be
achieved if the people of Kosova are not organized. Otherwise, there will be
tensions," Self-Determination Movement activist Glauk Konjufca said.

He sees better organization of the people as a way of avoiding riots or
uncontrolled protests. Were his organizing not to exist, he added, then the
status resolution would be unfavourable and this solution would only produce
sporadic outbreaks. [sentence as published]

"If the people mobilize in demonstrations that we can control and organize
themselves better to oppose the system and ask for self-determination, then
riots are less likely," the Self-Determination Movement activists said.

They said that the people had waited too long and in the event that the status
were to be unacceptable and traumatic, this could cause uncontrolled protests.

Kosova People's Movement Chairman Emrush Xhemajli said that currently the Unity
Team's legitimacy was disputable.

"The Unity Team can be considered a usurping team in Kosova. Local authority has
not been legitimate since October 2006, and the Kosova Assembly is in fact not
functioning as far as the important issues for the future or the country are
concerned," he said. With the status postponement, o Xhemajli said, Kosova was
entering a vacuum or a quite unpredictable situation.

LKCK [National Movement for the Liberation of Kosovo] leader Smajl Latifi said
that the wait for the status definition could be justified only if it resulted
in the realization of the Albanian people's will for self-determination, and
full freedom and sovereignty.

"In our case, postponement does not have this goal; therefore it is possible
that the postponement could be a factor that affects the general situation,"
Latifi said.

In the meantime, the Kosova Government does not want to deal with predictions of
protests or riots.

"We cannot prejudge what will happen and we do not deal in fortune telling,"
Arben Qirezi, adviser to Prime Minister Agim Ceku said. Nevertheless, he said
that the Kosova Government recognized the right to protest within the framework
of the law. He considered the government to be part of the process within the
Unity Team.

The Kosova Police Service has stated that it was ready to face any situation.
"We are preparing, not only for 30 June, but for any other situation, and we are
ready to react if necessary," ShPK Spokesperson Veton Elshani said.

Russia and the United States achieved no consensus on Kosova at the G-8 summit
in Germany on 8 June. In a new draft resolution, the United States and the
European Union foresee a postponement of the status process for another four
months.

Source: Express, Pristina, in Albanian 21 Jun 07 pp 8,9

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             310 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday

China: Hundred injured as Guangxi minorities clash with Hans - HK daily

LENGTH: 576 words


Text of report by Hong Kong Information Centre for Human Rights and Democracy on
14 July

[Unattributed report: "Several Thousand Minority People Involved in
Extraordinarily Large Riot in Guangxi, A Hundred People Wounded, A Thousand
Troops and Police In A State of Siege"'; this item is flagged as "Urgent!" by
the source]

The Information Centre for Human Rights and Democracy has learned about an
extraordinarily large riot in Jingxi county, Guangxi; thousands of Zhuang
people, an ethnic minority, have clashed with the Han people of Shandong Xinfa
Aluminium Plant that has invested in the locality; as of now more than 100
people are injured, the factory is wrecked, and a dozen or so vehicles,
including one patrol car and one military truck, are smashed; at present over
1,000 armed police and special police have arrived at the riot area; however
clashes were still going on and some casualties were reported this morning.
Jingxi county government has confirmed to us the extraordinarily large riot but
denied any fatalities in the riot.

We have learned that in 2007 Shandong Province's Xinfa Aluminium Group invested
three billion renminbi in Jingxi county to mine and make aluminium products. An
ore-dressing plant operated by Xinfa Group at the source of the Xinwei River in
that county has severely polluted the river and many villages' underground
water, causing extremely severe harm to the health of the county's residents,
99.5 per cent of whom are the Zhuang nationality; some 100,000 people have
experienced extremely great difficulties in their diet because they cannot drink
from the spring water. On 11 July Xinfa Aluminium's employees clashed with the
local Zhuang people because of road construction; thereafter the riot spread
quickly; Xinfa Aluminium hurriedly sent more than 1,000 club-wielding
mine-protection team members to beat up and injure the Zhuang people; then
thousands of local Zhuang people began to surround and storm the factory; on 12
and 13 July, the clashes spread, leaving many factory equipment smashed; even
indigenous guns and artillery pieces were used in the clashes. The local
authorities hurriedly called in the armed police to Jingxi county; last night
the motorized unit of the Guangxi Armed Police Corps also arrived in Jingxi;
currently the armed police and special police alone already number more than
1,000 people; several armoured vehicles are patrolling the area of conflict;
however some clashes were still going on this morning, and several people were
hospitalized. The clashes have left a dozen or so vehicles smashed, including
one patrol car and one military truck.

The Jingxi county government official on duty has confirmed the riot to us but
denied any fatalities; the official said that some people were wounded but there
were absolutely no fatalities. Jingxi county hospital's morgue administrator
also denied any fatalities.

The Zhuang nationality, formerly called the Zhuang [same pronunciation but
different character] nationality, has a population of about 15 million and
mainly inhabits Guangxi, Yunnan, Guangdong, Guizhou, and other provinces and
autonomous regions; in recent years the Zhuang people have experienced a rise in
ethnic awareness and some scholars of the Zhuang nationality are publishing more
articles on the cultural study of the Zhuang nationality.

[Dated] 0800 hours on 14 July 2010

Source: Information Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, Hong Kong, in Chinese
14 Jul 10

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             311 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2011 Monday

Commentary says Estonian "cyber tiger" inadequately prepared for future attack

LENGTH: 1343 words


Text of report by private Estonian newspaper Postimees, part of the Eesti Meedia
group,

[Commentary by security expert Eerik-Niiles Kross: "Cyber Tiger Without Claws"]

[Security expert] Eerik-Niiles Kross says that Estonia has managed to project an
image of a cyber defense tiger in the aftermath of 2007 April riots but the
tiger is snappy on paper only.

Cyber security is now as significant for Estonia as space exploration is for the
United States. Cyber defense is a modern topic, which has placed Estonia among
top players in the world. The United States was the first state to put a man on
the Moon while Estonia fought the world's first cyber war in 2007.

Today one state after another has started to analyze cyber threats, and the role
of cyber defense, which only recently was considered a civilian and business
issue but is now becoming increasingly important in defense planning. Risk
assessments indicate that an attack against Western countries in cyberspace will
be more likely over the next decade than some classical type of attack.

Specialists have said for years that cyber attacks can have the same effect as
strategic weapons. Take, for example, the much-publicized attack on Iran's
nuclear infrastructure by means of the advanced computer virus Stuxnet, which
caused most of Iran's uranium enrichment centrifuges to malfunction, thus
slowing Tehran's nuclear weapon program down for years.

To a certain extent, a cyber weapon is even more effective. It is not entirely
clear who was behind the Stuxnet attack. Kaspersky Labs concluded that the
sophisticated attack could only have been conducted "with nation-state support".
Although in this case an attack protected the interests of most of the world's
countries, it resulted, among other things, in Iran capturing the weapon.

The question of who has a cyber weapon is almost as important as the question of
who has nuclear weapons. Quite probably we will soon have international treaties
on the limitation of cyber weapons, which will prohibit attacks endangering
lives of civilians. If Canada is left without heating or Estonia without
electricity in winter, the effect of such an attack may be similar to a weapon
of mass destruction.

Today, there is no control over arsenals of cyber weapons, and cyber weapon
programs are top secret. Actually, the wider public does not even fully
comprehend what can be done with cyber weapons. It was just the same with
nuclear weapons -- the fact that they constitute a danger was not really
realized before they were used in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

Estonia is in a unique position. In terms of scale, the cyber attack against
Estonia in 2007 has so far been the most remarkable one, and Estonia has
presented itself as a flagship of cyber defense.

In hindsight, the 2007 attack was not technologically the most advanced one; it
was rather like an attack with clubs and cudgels. At that moment, Estonia coped
with riots and the cyber crisis but we should not draw too optimistic
conclusions here. In 2007, we coped mostly thanks to volunteers, not because we
had a national capability. Things would very likely have been different if
attackers had used malware like Stuxnet.

Estonia skillfully used emerging international interest in cyber security,
positioning the country as a global opinion leader in the cyber security topic
area and a formulator of relevant policies. We have received a lot of
international attention, and gained a very good position to become a real player
in the field of cyber security. Estonia hosts NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense
Center of Excellence, which is essentially a think tank for cyber security
studies.

Has Estonia learned enough from the cyber crisis as a state? I say that it has
not. We have not done our homework systematically in order to build a national
cyber defense capability, let alone created a system. We have managed
internationally to project an image of a cyber defense tiger but the tiger is
effective only on paper, just like it is the case in a number of other areas of
security.

True, after the 2007 attacks, a national cyber security strategy was formulated,
defining topic areas, which needed to be focused on application of technical
security measures, improving information security capability, shaping the legal
environment, international cooperation and sharing information.

All these elements are undoubtedly necessary for creating a national cyber
security system but nothing much has been done here. No decisions have been made
about who will coordinate the building of the cyber defense capability and
assign responsibilities, and how overlapping of responsibilities will be
avoided. So far, there are no decisions regarding cyber security management
during a crisis and integration with other security areas.

The current conceptual assumption seems to be that cyber security can be ensured
with existing organizations and crisis management systems without any central
coordination and management.

I dare say I doubt it. In particular, because operational situations require a
very clear and smooth management system, just as is stipulated in our new broad
defense strategy. Moreover, it is an entirely new field of security, where the
fragmented activities rather create problems than solve them.

The management of Estonia's cyber security is currently fragmented with
responsibilities divided between the ministries of defense, economic affairs and
the interior while a large part of the cyber security plans (if they existed)
should be implemented by private and public companies. I mean, for example,
banking, telecommunications, infrastructure for Internet services, air traffic
control, electricity and heating networks, and a large part of warehousing. No
one is directly responsible for the integrity, logic and functionality of cyber
defense plans and the whole system.

Lack of central coordination creates favorable conditions for overlapping
responsibilities, waste of resources and gaps in defense capability. This is a
real security shortcoming.

In order to prevent and overcome cyber crises, the responsibilities of cyber
police, the Cyber Security Alliance, the State Informatics Center, the
International Cooperative Cyber Defense Centre of Excellence and other entities
involved in cyber security must be very clear. It cannot be done without
coordination above the inter-ministerial level.

I must admit that the lack of central coordination is not the only problem in
the field of cyber security. Considering our general defense and security
organization, it becomes evident that several other fields have a similar
problem.

Ministries and agencies under them are narrowly focused on achieving the
objectives of their own particular field. They do cooperate but mostly to solve
problems at hand once a crisis, such as 2007 April riots or this winter's
snowstorm, has hit.

However, versatile defense and security need long-term preparation, multi-level
cooperation and very clearly regulated management. Just as in other areas of
security, a cyber security system for peacetime should be as close as possible
to that applied in wartime, with action plans, assigned responsibilities,
central management, trained personnel and be fully manned.

Thus, it is high time to combine the external beauty of a cyber model with
pithiness of a cyber state, and build a cyber defense system vital for the
protection of Estonians' electronic way of life.

The improvement of all security capabilities must be coordinated by a single
body in order to achieve integrity of national security. Setting up a relevant
body under the prime minister would be a reasonable solution: for example, a
national crisis center, which would be responsible for making a comprehensive
risk analysis, and for constantly updating it, as well as for strategic crisis
management.

Otherwise, in the event of another large-scale cyber attack against Estonia, the
NATO cyber defense center will have to make an analysis on why the
blue-black-and-white cyber tiger did not bite.

Source: Postimees, Tallinn, in Estonian 13 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             312 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 5, 2011 Thursday

Obama congratulates Jonathan on victory in Nigerian presidential elections

LENGTH: 1288 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 5 May

[Report by Joseph Ushigiale, Tokunbo Adedoja and Onwuka Nzeshi: "Obama Calls,
congratulates Jonathan, condemns riots"]

United States President Barack Obama has personally called and congratulated
President Goodluck Jonathan on his victory in the 16 April presidential
election. And as political groups and regional blocs lobby for key positions
after the general election, the South-east Caucus in the House of
Representatives Wednesday intensified its bid to clinch a prominent place in the
next democratic dispensation, particularly at the National Assembly.

A statement released Wednesday [4 May] night by the White House stated that
Obama called Jonathan in the morning to congratulate him on his electoral
victory and to commend the people of Nigeria "for their resolve and patience
during last month's historic presidential, legislative and gubernatorial
elections".

Obama pointed out that "the success of the elections was a testament to Nigerian
voters who waited in long lines, stayed to watch their votes counted and were
determined that these elections mark a new chapter in Nigerian history."

He also acknowledged that "credit also belongs to the Independent National
Electoral Commission, the National Youth Service Corps, and Nigeria's vibrant
civil society, all of which must play a role in ensuring that the final results
reflect the will of the Nigerian people and that Nigerian authorities
investigate and address any allegations of fraud or irregularities."

He noted that while the majority of Nigerians cast their ballots free from
intimidation and coercion, "the post-election violence that followed the
presidential election on April 16 was deplorable. Violence has no place in a
democratic society, and it is the responsibility of all Nigerians to reject it."

The US president pointed out that even with the success recorded in the conduct
of free and fair polls, "Democracy, however, neither begins nor ends with
elections."

To move forward, Obama stressed that "now is the time for Nigeria's leaders and
its people to come together and build the future that they deserve - a
multi-party democracy that addresses the aspirations of all Nigerians,
especially its youth, who did so much to make the recent elections a success and
who will define the nation's future."

In a veiled reference to the ethnic and religious undertones that underlined the
electioneering campaigns and post election violence, Obama reminded Jonathan
that "As Africa's most populous country, Nigeria can show what is possible when
people of different parties, ethnicities and faith backgrounds come together to
seek peace, provide for their families, and give their children a better
future."

To drive the point further home on the import of the just concluded polls, Obama
emphasized that "Today, Nigerians have an historic opportunity to move forward
together and make their nation into a model for Africa. As I told President
Jonathan, I look forward to strengthening our partnership with Nigeria so that
this and future generations of Nigerians can live in peace, democracy and
prosperity."

Meanwhile, the parliamentary caucus, made up of 43 legislators from the five
states in the South-east geo-political zone, rose from a crucial meeting
Wednesday and demanded that it would only accept the position of presiding
officer in either of the two chambers of the National Assembly.

The lawmakers said their demand for a South-east federal lawmaker to be made the
Senate President or Speaker of the House of Representatives in the seventh
session of the National Assembly was based on the overwhelming contributions of
the zone to the victory of the ruling PDP [People's Democratic Party] in the
just-concluded elections.

They argued that it would be unfair for a region which had shown so much loyalty
to the ruling party to be relegated to the background in the aftermath of the
elections.

In a communique issued at the end of the meeting, the caucus expressed concern
that in recent times, the South-east geopolitical zone of the country had
suffered serious political setbacks and would no longer tolerate a situation
where some internal and external political forces were unleashed on the region
to stifle its political fortunes.

It recalled that in the build up to the general election, the zone demonstrated
absolute good faith when it unconditionally backed the candidature of President
Jonathan and delivered the needed block votes that gave him (Jonathan) victory
at the PDP presidential primary, resulting in his emergence as the party flag
bearer. This support, the caucus said, was in spite of the "numerous tempting
offers from our brothers" from other geopolitical zones of the country.

"We insist on either the offices of the President of the Senate or Speaker of
the House of Representatives. We will reject other offices such as Secretary to
the Government of the Federation, Deputy President of the Senate or any such
office that may be offered to undermine the attainment of the two offices so
mentioned. It is pertinent to mention here that under the present circumstances
only the position of Senate President or Speaker of the House of Representatives
is acceptable to the South-east. It is a gratuitous insult to offer the
South-east any position less than this.

"The position of the South-east that it would not run for the office of the
President or Vice-President, no doubt compelled both the Action Congress of
Nigeria (ACN) and the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) presidential
candidates, to pick their running mates from the South-west geo-political zone.

"The results of the just-concluded general elections show that, the PDP in the
South-east received over 85 per cent support in the National Assembly elections,
and about 97 per cent support in the presidential election. The total votes of
5.1 million represent almost a quarter of the total valid votes received by
President Jonathan in the presidential election. Indeed, the PDP has won all
three of the governorship elections conducted so far in the South-east.

"From the above figures, it is crystal clear that in the 2011 general elections,
the PDP did very well in the South-east zone. This position is in line with the
voting pattern started in 1999, representing PDP dominance in the South-east. It
is therefore incomprehensible that over 85 per cent South-east support for PDP
in the National Assembly elections will be sacrificed for any reason whatsoever.

"The argument about religious balancing is not tenable, historically. We may
recall that in the 2nd Republic, while the President (Shagari) was a Muslim, the
Vice-President, Senate President and Speaker were all Christians. Hell was not
let loose. During the 1993 presidential elections, the South-east put its weight
behind the SDP's Abiola/Kingibe candidature -a Muslim-Muslim ticket.

"In 2007, the President of the Senate, Senator David Mark and the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Patricia Etteh were Christians. In fact, in
the current legislature, both the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the House of
Representatives are Muslims. Religion has never been an issue," the communique
read in part.

The caucus enjoined the central socio-cultural organization in the zone, the
Ohaneze Ndigbo, all the governors of the South-east zone, all Senators and
Honourable members-elect, and all stakeholders in the politics of the
South-east, who were part and parcel of the zone's support for President
Jonathan, to prevail on the national leadership of the ruling party to ensure
that the South-east was not short-changed in the distribution of key political
positions.

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 5 May 11

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             313 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Iranian Government News

                            February 18, 2011 Friday

[#xfeff]Larijani blames US for protests

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 511 words


The IRIB has issued following news:

Iranian Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani says the United States is behind
anti-government "sham" protests cloned off the pro-democracy movements in
Tunisia and Egypt.

"The main purpose was to clone [the protests] so they could claim that the
crises plaguing the US-backed dictatorships in the region have spread and that
Iran -- which has been the forerunner of democracy in the region -- is also
having internal problems," Fars news agency quoted Larijani as saying on
Tuesday, referring to the popular uprisings in the North African countries that
toppled two longtime despots.

The remarks came one day after the supporters of the defeated candidates in the
2009 presidential elections, Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, gathered in
parts of the Iranian capital.

Tehran says members of the anti-government groups, including the anti-Iran
terrorist group Mujahedin Khalq Organization (MKO), disrupted the protests by
staging riots and shooting on bystanders. Two people were killed and several
others injured.

Referring to the protests in Egypt and Tunisia, the parliament speaker said the
"roots of the Islamic awakening" in the region were in the hostile and
humiliating attitude of the United States and Israel toward Muslims.

Larijani added that the US, "angered" by Iran's support of the pro-democracy
protests in the region, orchestrated such "sham rallies" in an effort to break
the will of those nations heading toward revolution.

"The US must know that by such hypocritical moves, it will further tarnish its
despicable image in Iran and the region."

The opposition had asked for permission to hold a public rally "in support of
the people in Tunisia and Egypt" but Iranian officials refused to give
permission and declared all such rallies illegal.

Tehran said the Iranian people already expressed their solidarity with the
Egyptians and Tunisians on February 11 on the sidelines of rallies marking the
32nd anniversary of the victory of the Islamic Revolution.

Meanwhile, counter-demonstrations were held to denounce the move by the
opposition to disrupt public order and condemn the riots by the supporters of
the defeated candidates.

This is while the US government has once again voiced support for
anti-government moves in Iran.

US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Monday that Washington stands with
Iranian opposition supporters.

"Let me, clearly and directly, support the aspirations of the people who are in
the streets in Iran today," Clinton told reporters after meeting with the
Republican speaker of the House of Representatives, John Boehner.

"We think that there needs to be a commitment to open up the political system in
Iran, to hear the voices of the opposition and civil society," she added.

Iran has repeatedly slammed Western countries, in particular the US and Britain,
for supporting post-election riots that erupted following the June 2009
presidential election, which resulted in the victory of Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

For more information please contact: info@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: 752


              Copyright 2011 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                             314 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tancredo speech stirs row Fire alarms pulled at Mich. event; lawmaker says 3
backers assaulted

BYLINE: Anne C. Mulkern Denver Post Staff Writer

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. C-02

LENGTH: 318 words


Controversy circled U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo again last week when a ruckus erupted
at a Michigan law school where he went to speak.

A fire alarm was pulled twice, students reported that they were assaulted and
protesters booed during Tancredo's speech on immigration policies late Thursday
at the Michigan State University College of Law, according to campus police,
Tancredo's account and a student newspaper report.

There were at least three violent incidents with protesters targeting student
backers of the event, Tancredo, a Littleton Republican, said. "One was spit on,
one was kicked, and one was punched," he said in an e-mail to his aides, shared
with The Denver Post. "Tires were also slashed."

Earlier last week, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, Miami's mayor and a Republican U.S.
House member from South Florida criticized Tancredo for telling a website that
Miami resembles "a Third World country."

"What a nut," Jeb Bush said of Tancredo on Wednesday.

Tancredo went to Michigan State University on a visit to the state to talk about
immigration. He leads the congressional caucus that opposes legal status for
illegal immigrants. College Republican groups sponsored his appearance.

The protesters told police they would sit in the back, but before the speech
began, the fire alarm was pulled, said Sgt. Florene McGlothian-Taylor with the
Michigan State University Police Department.

The room was evacuated. After students were allowed to go back inside, the alarm
was pulled a second time, but the room was not evacuated again,
McGlothian-Taylor said.

There was no report to police of the kicking, spitting or hitting.

During the speech, protesters' shouts caused interruptions. The college
newspaper The State News reported that protesters carried signs reading
"Ignorant Racist" outside the room.

The State News reported that about 40 people attended the speech. Tancredo said
there were about 100 people in the room.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             315 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Today's Muslim Peshawar

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

US ambassador Powell quits India job

LENGTH: 341  words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


US ambassador to India Nancy Powell resigned from her job on Monday amid local
media speculation she was being eased out for Washington to start afresh on ties
with New Delhi where a new government is due to take charge by mid-May.

Reports said the announcement of her resignation to her colleagues in the US
mission here came a week after media reports that she may be shipped out by the
Obama Administration to "clean the slate" with India. Ms Powell has been in
India for less than three years.

"US Ambassador to India Nancy J Powell announced in a US Mission Town Hall
meeting March 31 that she has submitted her resignation to President Obama and,
as planned for some time, will retire to her home in Delaware before the end of
May," an announcement in the US Embassy website said late night on Monday.

Press Trust of India quoted embassy sources as not wanting to hazard a guess on
the decision of the 67-year-old career service officer to quit her post and
return home at a time when India is in an election process and Washington is
also deeply interested in its outcome.

There was media speculation a week ago that Powell would be replaced with a
political appointee as an attempt by the Obama administration to "clean the
slate" with India.The report had said Powell had dragged her feet on meeting
Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi and was perceived as being "too close" to
the UPA's foreign policy establishment.

However, when Washington decided to warm up to Modi, who is perceived as one of
the front runners for the prime minister's post, Ms Powell met Mr Modi on
February 13, ending a nine-year-old boycott of the Gujarat leader on the issue
of 2002 post-Godhra riots.

The US move marked a u-turn in its earlier stand of having nothing to do with
Modi, whose visa it cancelled in 2005 under a domestic law on the issue of
"severe violations of religious freedom", PTI said. Ever since it had refused to
review its policy.

Earlier, the EU and Britain had also ended their boycott of Mr Modi and warmed
up to him in the ru-up to the polls.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             316 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

Chart Choppers Whirlybird travel for the hoi polloi

BYLINE: Jennifer Gould Keil

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 443 words


New York's chopper wars are about to begin.

A new helicopter service aims to make it affordable for the masses - not just
the ultra rich - to forgo a taxi and hop a flight to the airport.

Starting Wednesday, Gotham Air will offer flights starting at just $99 from
Manhattan to JFK and Newark Liberty airports.

Last year, Blade launched as the "Uber of helicopters." Clients use a mobile
phone app to order choppers to take them to their private jets or a weekend
jaunt in the Hamptons. While Blade has added convenience, the price of a seat -
around $500 - still qualifies as a luxury.

"It's our belief that people who want to charter helicopters to take them to
private airports already know how to do this," Gotham Air CEO Tim Hayes said.
"We want to give as many people as possible the chance to experience a
helicopter flight."

Gotham's going rates are higher than the initial $99. After the introductory
flight, prices will range from $199 to $219, depending on the time of day and
the airport, Hayes said, adding that the choppers will depart from three Gotham
Air terminals in Manhattan.

The service will also expand to other public and private airports and helipads,
and increase from a few flights a day to every hour on the hour, he said.

"I had been a helicopter passenger for many years, but this is my first
helicopter venture," said Hayes, who is also an award-winning music, concert and
TV producer.

The idea took flight after Hayes chartered a helicopter to get his pal, Duff
McKagan of Guns 'N Roses fame, to the airport on time. He was stunned to get a
$2,000 bill for a six-minute ride.

"I felt that there should be a better way," Hayes said. "Chopper rides shouldn't
be reserved for the super elite. That was sort of the 'aha' moment."

While Gotham Air is geared to the "general public," the flights are first class.

"It's like a Mercedes S class," Hayes said.

Gotham Air has leased 10 "state of the art" Bell 407 helicopters from Helicopter
Flight Service.

John Kjekstad, who co-founded HFS in 1985, is also a co-founder of Gotham Air.

Gotham Air describes the Bell 407 choppers as the "sports car of helicopters"
with speeds of up to 160 miles per hour.

The flights come with "in-flight" food from Chef Thomas Keller's Bouchon Bakery
and Hermes leather seats, among other travel perks.

Gotham Air is not a direct air carrier. All helicopter rides are operated by
HFS, according to Hayes, who was also executive producer of the 2014 Amnesty
International Concert at the Barclays Center and helped get political activists
Pussy Riot into the US and onstage for the concert.

jkeil@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Spin doctor: CEO Tim Hayes of Gotham Air is all smiles at Manhattan's
Pier 6 Helipad prior to the launch of his new airport service for the com-muter
class. [R. Umar Abbasi]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             317 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 28, 2012 Friday

Pandering to the fringe

BYLINE: Cyril Almeida

LENGTH: 888  words


Cowardice, thy name is Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP). Last week, when low-key
protests against the anti-Islam film Innocence of Muslims had still not
threatened to grow into a conflagration, the PPP-led federal government took an
astonishing decision: it declared Friday a national holiday and called for a
series of peaceful protests across the country against the film.

Of course, "peaceful" was a suggestion no one took seriously. Come Friday, after
the weekly afternoon prayers, there were full-blown riots. The US embassy in
Islamabad and consulates in Karachi, Lahore and Peshawar were the principal
targets but several layers of security had rendered them unreachable. So the
protesters turned on private and public property, torching cinemas, looting
banks, ransacking restaurants and burning police vehicles. Twenty three people
were killed in Karachi and Peshawar and over 200 injured across the country by
the end of the day. The initial estimates of the losses ran into several hundred
million dollars.

The media, particularly the popular private news channels, went into overdrive,
asking why Pakistanis had turned on Pakistanis to protest against a film made in
the US. If that seemed like rationality imposing itself after the orgy of deadly
irrationality on the streets all Friday, it was thoroughly misleading.

Damaged but unbowed, the hardliners adjusted their line: while the violence and
looting was deplorable, they said, the real issue was being missed. The original
sin - the blasphemous act of the Egyptian-American filmmaker - was the main
problem and it was incumbent upon all Muslims to voice their outrage to ensure
that such acts are not left unpunished and are never repeated, they argued.

And therein lies the reason for the government's cowardice: first in declaring
Friday a national holiday and then in allowing the mobs to rampage through
Pakistan's major cities to mark Youm-e-Ishq-e-Rasool (day to celebrate love for
the Prophet). In an increasingly conservative society with a growing extremist
fringe, no public official can afford to be seen as soft on hate, however far
away the original provocation, against Muslims and Islam, at whatever cost to
Pakistani society.

If it was staggering that a government should essentially embrace the mobs in a
thinly veiled attempt to protect its flanks ahead of a general election, a
minister belonging to a smaller coalition partner has taken matters into the
realm of outright criminality.

Railway Minister Ghulam Ahmad Bilour, belonging to the so-called secular Awami
National Party (ANP), which leads the provincial government in
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and is a partner in the federal coalition, stunned reporters
at the Peshawar Press Club on Saturday when he announced a $100,000 reward for
anyone who kills the producer of Innocence of Muslims. Bilour, whose party has
suffered immensely at the hands of militancy, even referred to the Taliban and
al-Qaeda as "brothers" and claimed he would pay them the reward if they carried
out the "noble deed" of murdering the filmmaker.

The minister's assertions are rooted in the most cynical politics. The ANP is
expected to face a strong challenge in its home province from the religious
parties and Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) after a disastrous term
over the past four-and-a-half years. With an election round the corner, Bilour
was trying to outperform the conservatives and establish his party's "Islamic"
credentials, which are always questioned by the ANP's more conservative
political opponents.

Once again, though, the PPP has done nothing. The prime minister's office has
simply tried to distance itself from the railway minister's comments and
suggested that the PM would take up the matter with the ANP boss, Asfandyar Wali
Khan, while allowing Bilour to continue to serve in office. But when myopic
political considerations dominate and mainstream politicians pander to the
extreme religious right, the effect on society at large is unmistakable: it
compounds the struggle for balance and moderation and makes the country that
much more dangerous for everyone who lives in it.

With hostility to Islam a reality in fringe quarters in the West and the
internet making the creation and dissemination of hate material all too easy,
there will almost certainly be more such provocations to come. But the "Day of
Love" last Friday and Bilour's statement on Saturday have shifted the goalposts:
the next incident of hate propaganda against Muslims and Islam that gains some
traction internationally will have to be protested against even more strongly -
at perhaps an even bigger cost to Pakistan itself.

Meanwhile, as protests against Innocence of Muslims continue to spread across
the Muslim world, Pakistan must brace itself for further agitation and violence.
The government's theory had been that after Friday, with the movie adequately
protested against, it would have been protected from accusations of being soft
on hate against Muslims and could push back against protesters with force if
they refused to get off the streets.

But the government's acquiescence to - in fact, its implicit endorsement of -
the violent protests has made it that much more difficult to draw a line under
the ongoing episode.

The writer is an Islamabad-based assistant editor with 'Dawn',
express@expressindia.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             318 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            November 5, 2012 Monday

Guru Cool

BYLINE: Leher Kala

LENGTH: 583  words


It's election day in the US tomorrow and there's a photograph circulating on
Facebook of a lady in a '60s hairstyle talking on a pink retro phone complete
with a spirally twisted wire, while her two kids look on. The caption reads, "On
Tuesday be careful you don't set the country back 50 years", hardly a subtle dig
at the Republican candidate for President, Mitt Romney. Barack Obama's cleverly
worded speeches and aggressive campaign is designed to systematically tear into
the opposition. Like this line from one of his recent appearances: "Don't turn
back the clock. In America, we're all equal whether we're Hispanic, black,
white, gay or straight." What he essentially means is the alternatives won't
care about minorities, gender or race issues. You have to be made of stern stuff
to run for election in the US. Every candidate is critiqued and belittled from
every angle, each personal failing highlighted, subjected to swipe after swipe
from opponents. If a politician has ever had an extramarital affair, used drugs
or has unexplained financial expenditures, it will come out and possibly change
equations. After brutally laying down the facts on the news, the jibes will
continue for weeks on The Tonight's Show with Jay Leno.

Considering the relentless scrutiny US politicians have to endure in the media,
their Indian counterparts have a walk in the park in comparison. Which is why
they're so bad at handling criticism and are so quick to get affronted. All
these years in India's democracy, politicians have been lucky that an unwritten
gentleman's code has been in place, and their personal lives have never come
under scrutiny. But now in the future, we can look forward to some fascinating
personal revelations about people in power. It's a recent phenomenon, or maybe
it's the Arvind Kejriwal effect: attacks on integrity and corruption have become
so common they no longer generate any interest, much better then, to attack far
more interesting private lives. In the most recent war of words between the BJP
and newly inducted Minister of State Shashi Tharoor, about his glamorous wife
Sunanda, I'm not quite sure who came out looking better. The Chief Minister of
Gujarat, Narendra Modi's sarcastic remark, "Has anyone seen a girlfriend of
50-crores in this country?", is inexplicable, in the sense I can't understand
whether he means she made 50 crores, or whether Shashi Tharoor married her
because of it. Tharoor's retort that his wife is priceless was retweeted 1,800
times, but not before the country had a chuckle at the BJP leader Mukhtar Abbas
Naqvi's taunt, "Ministry of Love Affairs should be created for an international
love guru like Shashi."

The clever one liner by Tharoor, "Better to be Minister of Love than Chief
Minister of Hate!" should have put an end to the slugfest, but his wife chose to
give NDTV a mind numbingly boring half-an-hour long interview, where they
discussed how men don't respect women and why family members of politicians like
Robert Vadra and herself shouldn't be targeted, effectively diminishing her own
case. A more effective response would have been the usual one when it comes to
Modi: about the riots or the US denying him a visa. Everywhere in the world,
politicians thrive by heaping ugly accusations about the other side. Every
night, debates on news TV degenerate into screaming bouts between spokespersons
of different political parties. It'll be a nice change to have debates on issues
other than corruption.

hutkayfilms@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             319 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            December 28, 2012 Friday

Modi, by default

BYLINE: Christophe Jaffrelot

LENGTH: 1161  words


The results of the recent state election in Gujarat show an erosion of the BJP's
domination. If the party loses only two seats (115 against 117) compared to
2007, this is largely due to the arrival of a third player, the Gujarat
Parivartan Party (GPP). Had not this new actor been in the fray, the BJP would
have probably lost 14 more seats to the Congress. In particular, the GPP has
made a dent in one of the Congress's caste "vote banks", that of the Leuva
Patels.

Still, Narendra Modi's hat-trick is remarkable. But what are the real factors of
his success? He claims that his popularity results from his economic
achievements. But Gujarat is far from the top 10 of the Indian states, in terms
of literacy and malnutrition or according to the Human Development Index.

So why do people vote for Modi? The short answer could be: by default. The
Congress has been facing a leadership crisis for years. It has never been able
to project a strong contender for the post of chief minister - lest this would
unleash faction fights. Besides, the party has an ideology problem: it has
always promoted a conservative brand of Hinduism in the state and cannot easily
invent an alternative to Hindu nationalism. Its only leader who has been
re-elected this time, Shankarsinh Vaghela, is a former RSS cadre.

But in other states - like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar - the decline of the Congress
has not resulted in the rise to power of the BJP. In contrast to these states,
OBC and Dalit politics are conspicuous by their absence in Gujarat and cannot
operate as counter-forces to Hindu nationalism.

In fact, Gujarat calls to mind pre-Mandal, clientelism-based politics - with the
BJP in the role of the Congress. Modi, indeed, benefits from the support of the
savarnas, including the Patels, the dominant caste of Gujarat which left the
Congress when it embarked on positive discrimination schemes in favour of the
lower castes in the 1980s. They rallied around the BJP even more decisively when
it articulated an aggressively Hindu nationalist agenda that provided them -
like the Swaminarayans and other similar movements in Gujarat - with a more
secure identity at a time when this erstwhile rural group was experiencing a
rapid process of modernisation (and urbanisation).

Hindutva is of course the other reason why Gujaratis (at least the savarnas)
support Modi - hence the notion of "Moditva". They first did it in the 2002
elections because of the polarising effect of the anti-Muslim killings - which
resulted in the Hindu majority rallying behind him. Certainly, Gujarat has not
experienced any major riot since then, but the communal divide remains, as
evident from the ghettoisation that Muslims of Ahmedabad and other cities
experience today. Mixed neighbourhoods are not the order of the day any more
since Muslims are not welcome in their own cities but pushed to peripheral
townships like Juhapura, near Ahmedabad.

In addition, the recent election campaign has shown that Modi was a very
effective populist. Never before - except Indira Gandhi in the 1970s - had an
Indian politician saturated the political space the way he did. A symbol of this
ubiquitous presence was the appearance of his image in 3D simultaneously on huge
screens in dozens of cities. He then presented himself as an "avatar" of
"Hanuman" - and called Ahmed Patel "Ahmed mian". For years, this marketing
genius has been advised by the American company APCO Worldwide which has already
worked for the Nigerian dictator, Sani Abacha and the life-president of
Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev.

Each of his performances in 3D cost Rs 5 crore according to other BJP leaders
disturbed by such extravaganza. Modi can afford such expenditures - and many
others! - because of the support he gets from the corporate sector. All the CEOs
of the large companies of India - some of them with Gujarati roots - are all
praise for the state government, which has offered them land at a throwaway
price for their plants, tax concessions, zero interest loans. On the top of it,
they can have direct access to this "one window man" and save the bureaucratic
detours and red-tape of other states.

The re-election of Modi may propel him to the national stage since he is very
popular among the Indian middle class throughout the country. More importantly,
even if the BJP and its mother organisation, the RSS, do not appreciate the
personality cult a la Modi that unfolds itself at the expense of the traditional
collegiality of these organisations, they may well rally around him by default.
L.K. Advani is too old and the party president, Nitin Gadkari, is facing
allegations of corruption. Senior BJP leaders like Sushma Swaraj and Arun
Jaitley have already supported him in the perspective of the 2014 general
elections.

Modi will benefit from his clean image and the general assumption that Gujarat
is a model of development, at a time when corruption and the economic slowdown
have become key issues - especially for the middle class. But the rise of Modi
may be resented by coalition partners of the BJP, including the

JD(U) which may hesitate to alienate its  Muslim voters.

Another restraining factor may come from the judicial side. Modi may not be
directly affected in spite of the credible allegations of a senior policeman,
Sanjeev Bhatt, that he was responsible for the 2002 killings. But his right-hand
man, Amit Shah, has been recently convicted - like half-a-dozen other senior
policemen - for a series of fake encounters.

Last but not least, external pressures may play a role. After the 2002 riots,
the US decided to not issue Modi a visa and the EU decided to boycott him. The
Gujarati diaspora, a major force to reckon with, will now lobby the Obama
administration and European governments. David Cameron has been the first to
send his high commissioner to meet Modi just before the elections. Other leaders
willing to develop business relations with Gujarat may follow suit.

The resistible rise of Modi (to paraphrase Bertolt Brecht) is revealing of the
banalisation of Hindu nationalism - and the correlative marginalisation of
Muslims; of the growing importance of mass communication and money in Indian
politics - and more particularly of the nexus between politicians and the
corporate sector; and of the declining impact of the judiciary on political
personnel - the fact that Amit Shah has been convicted and the condemnation to a

34-year jail sentence of a former member of Modi's government, Maya Kodnani,
because of her role in the 2002 killings have made no difference. The former has
been re-elected, of course. Certainly, the popularity of Modi reflects the
valorisation of development issues, but this priority is interpreted in a very
specific manner by the middle class which is more interested in consuming more
than in fighting inequalities.

The writer is a senior research fellow at CERI, Sciences Po, Paris and professor
of Indian politics and society at the King's India Institute, London

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             321 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday

Naveen's gameplan for 2014: Tribal, minority cards

LENGTH: 1202 words

DATELINE: India


India, July 6 -- Kalinga Nagar and Kandhamal: Two glaring examples of Naveen
Patnaik's ineffective handling of tribal and minority affairs in Odisha.

He has been severely censured by many national and international organisations
for the killing of 16 tribals at Kalinga Nagar in Jajpur district in 2006 and
for the anti-Christian violence in Kandhamal in 2008. Tribals and minorities
have predominantly been the most susceptible sections of the society under the
Patnaik regime.

It is this realisation that has led to Patnaik building his goodwill among the
tribals and minorities, predominantly Christians. Dilip Tirkey was nominated to
the Rajya Sabha this year by Patnaik in preference to stalwarts like former
Foreign Secretary Lalit Mansingh, eminent tribal social activist Tulasi Munda
and singer Prafulla Kar. In Tirkey's nomination, the first signs of Naveen's
gameplan became visible. Tirkey is a highly-admired Christian tribal from
Sundargarh district, a region where over 40 per cent voters are minorities. His
voice for Naveen can cast a spell in 2014. In one stroke, Patnaik exhibited his
craftsmanship as a sympathiser of the tribals and the minorities.

In Presidential candidate Purno A Sangma, the BJD supremo has found another chip
to further his tribal-minority votebank politics. Naveen has been shouting
hoarse justifying his support to Sangma. The media are replete with Naveen's
justification that he is supporting Sangma since he is a tribal and a minority.
But Sangma did not become the Lok Sabha Speaker since he was a Christian tribal;
nor has he been respected for his tribal and religious affiliations. He is known
as an eminent personality due to his merit, knowledge, interpersonal relations
and strong political intellect. But unfortunately for Naveen and Sangma who are
brothers-in-arms today, only tribal and religious credentials matter presently.

When Sangma's son Conrad met Naveen in Bhubaneswar to secure his signature as
the first proposer for his father's candidature for the Presidential nomination,
Conrad said, "It clearly shows his (Naveen's) love for the tribal people and
Christian people." Wasn't such a statement in the presence of Naveen communal
and community-based? When a minority member speaks in public domain supporting
his community, he is termed communal and majority community people supporting
him are termed minority-appeasers. How come the same people were quiet when such
Christian-favouring statements were made from the Naveen Niwas, that too for a
Presidential nominee! After all, Naveen is still the potential NDA ally.

Why do the media prefer not to ask Naveen as to how a Presidential candidate
could be chosen by him based on his tribal status and Christian religion? When a
person apart from Naveen speaks up for the minorities, it is termed as
Sankshalaghu Tustikaran (minority appeasement). When Naveen does the same, he is
Dharmanirapeksha (secular) and his "bones speak of secularism." I am sure
Naveen's secular bones would get a few fractures if he ever visits the interiors
of Kandhamal where even today the impact of communal violence is still evident
in many villages.

Naveen's newfound love for tribals and minorities is born out of two reasons.
They are political and international. Politically, there are 32 tribal seats out
of the 147 in the State Assembly, five tribal seats out of the State's 21 Lok
Sabha seats, predominantly spread out across the western and southern regions
where Naveen is expected to face hostilities in 2014, especially in the backdrop
of Pyarimohan Mohapatra's rebellion. It is an open secret that large sections of
the BJD leadership in western and southern Odisha are still with Pyari since he
had mentored them during the 2004 and 2009 elections.

Thus, the first gameplan is to garner a strong tribal votebank, and the need to
signify seriousness is by sending tribals to Rajya Sabha and supporting them for
the Presidential race.

Out of the 147 Assembly seats, there are 49 where minorities, predominantly
Christians, have a strong votebank ranging from six per cent to 45 per cent and
they are also predominantly in the western and southern belts. The minority
votes in these areas usually swing together in one direction. They vote en
masse. In a constituency of two lakh votes, sometimes the difference in winning
is less than 3,000. A 3,000-strong minority vote swinging en masse in a single
direction across 49 seats could tilt the balance between a hung Assembly and a
landslide majority as seen in 2009. Combined together, the tribal and Christian
votes can be a major differentiator in Naveen's fortunes for 2014.

The second aspect is international. Naveen has been an international-centric
person. From New York to London to Bhubaneswar, he has travelled a long distance
and is retracing his footsteps. His first foreign trip as the CM in 12 years was
to London and the second is coming up in September to the United States. He is
back to his international demeanour. But he has been severely panned in the
international community mainly for the Kandhamal riots. The US administration
placed India in the watch-list predominantly due to Kandhamal and the European
Union censured the Indian Prime Minister so much so that Manmohan Singh had to
call Kandhamal a "national shame." Now, Naveen is out to rectify that image. He
wants to come across as a leader who is truly "secular."

In 2008-09, while the State's Congress leaders were trying to play soft on
Kandhamal fearing alienation from the majority community, it was Naveen who went
out of the way to convince the Sangh Parivar to withdraw their bandh on the
Christmas Day of 2008. He promised the minority leadership of action against
perpetuators of crime in Kandhamal, broke away from the BJP, called VHP and
Bajrang Dal fundamentalist organisations.

He was a master player in 2009 with his mentor Pyari pulling the strings to
perfection. Cut to 2012, the race to February-March, 2014 elections has begun.
By December 2013, the smell of elections would be heavy and, thus, only about 16
to 18 months are left to the ballot.

Naveen has started his game well before the Opposition has even attempted to
wake up. By playing the Tirkey and Sangma cards, he has struck an impression
among the tribal and minority voters. He may not have his erstwhile Chanakya
around, but 12 years as the CM have taught him a great deal. His latest
tribal-minority strategy is set to win him many hearts and hopefully many votes.
Or at least that's what he is hoping. As the poem goes, "Life's battles don't
always go to the stronger or faster man, but the man who wins is the man who
thinks he can." Naveen has started thinking that with this new strategy he can.
If the Opposition has to stop him in his tracks, they need to start thinking on
similar lines that "they can." If not, come 2014, the Vanvaas (forest exile) for
them would have extended by another five years.

Dr Sasmit Patra is a keen observer of the Odisha politics. He can be reached at
sasmitpatra@gmail.com Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             322 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        July 3, 2000, Monday, Edition 1

JOURNALISTIC IDEALS TRAMPLED IN THE RIOT

BYLINE: Alison Blackduck

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 695 words


The media coverage of the protesters at the Queen's Park riot has
 been abysmal.

 Most Toronto journalists covered the event and its aftermath to the best of
their abilities. Their facts and figures were correct and the copy fit neatly on
the printed page.

But in the media's quest to offer the most comprehensive coverage and the most
distinct moral indignation, many journalists lost sight of the real issue: the
freedom of those protestors to choose whom they associate with and what they
believe.

The coverage revolved mainly around one man - John Clarke - and one anti-
poverty group, the Ontario Coalition Against Poverty (OCAP).

The term ''cult of personality" was used often by the media and Clarke himself
to describe the movement, though Clarke said it tongue-in-cheek.

I suppose Clarke's cult would be the flock of young people dressed in dirty
jeans and made up in the latest fashion of facial piercings, stitches and
bruised noses. Young people like 26-year-old mandy hiscocks (she spells her name
without capitals) of Guelph who was roughed up by police at the riot.

The diminutive 5-foot-2-inch gymnastics teacher pointed at the five black
stitches over her left eyebrow and her swollen nose, explaining how she was
injured by a police officer who felt he had to subdue her with a baton-strike.

Hiscocks has been involved with OCAP for about two years, though at an informal
level.

When she's not teaching children to tumble properly, hiscocks is a volunteer
dog-walker for medical researchers who use animals in their experiments -
further evidence that she isn't a militant idealistic extremist. If she were,
she'd probably be picketing those researchers rather than trying to make their
dogs' lives better in her small, generous way.

Hiscocks has never been homeless, but then again, I've never been the butt of a
cruel anti-Semitic joke, though I reprimanded a group of young boys who referred
to their friend's spendthriftiness as ''kiking" and would do so again if I had
to.

So there it is, yet another sensationalistic media profile of an exploitative
cult leader and one of his sycophants. The blind leading the blind into a
violent, bloody mess of warring ideologies and aggressive resistance and
provocation.

How dare Clarke presume to speak for Ontario's poor and oppressed? commentators
wrote. Why, he's done nothing but exploit society's most vulnerable in his
zealous quest for self-righteous gratification.

Stop right there.

One of the main arguments foisted on the public by Toronto journalists is that
the homeless, the mentally ill and young idealists like hiscocks who gravitate
toward Clarke don't know what's good for them.

Those misguided souls don't know what they're thinking, so they're being led
astray by the self-appointed Pied Piper of anti-poverty activism.

The problem with this argument is that if journalists, speaking as
representatives of the larger Canadian society, argue that homeless people, the
mentally ill and young idealists are incapable of making rational decisions
about whom they associate with and what they believe, then journalists, and
those they represent, are really saying they know better.

Ideally, the journalist's role is to provoke public debate and protect the
public interest. As Saskatchewan regional CBC producer Ian Hanna puts it: ''Our
role as journalists is to afflict the comforted and comfort the afflicted."

How far these ideals fell after the riot.

Journalists patronizingly proclaimed their dedication to improving the lot of
the less fortunate, then stated that those people who participated in the
anti-poverty demonstration couldn't think for themselves.

Only a handful of individuals responded to those public opinions with
indignation.

Everybody seemed to let it slide.

Apathy. No opposition in theory is acceptance in practice.

This profound disrepect shown by journalists and the ensuing public apathy
toward the dignity of society's oppressed and afflicted was an admission by
omission of who was really responsible for that riot.

Us.

Alison Blackduck is a reporter with The Toronto Star.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2000 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             323 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday
                                  Pune Edition

Riots unfortunate,Modi told EU as ties entered new phase

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 675 words



HIGHLIGHT: Now,Germany Embraces CM


New Delhi: The 2002 Gujarat riots were "unfortunate" and no such incident would
recur - this is what Narendra Modi is learned to have told European envoys as he
met them over an icebreaker of a lunch in January.On Friday,German ambassador
Michael Steiner declared that the European Union had ended its boycott of
Narendra Modi,marking a big step towards ending the diplomatic isolation the
Gujarat chief minister has faced since the communal riots.The statement came a
day after EU's ambassador to India Joao Cravinho announced the group's intention
to engage with Modi.With the UK having reached out to Modi,the US remains the
only missing piece in afull scale diplomatic embrace of the BJP leader who has
emerged as a strong contender for the PM nomination.China and Japan never
shunned Modi largely because of the business potential of Gujarat.Corporates
rooting for Modi: Sharad JD (U) president and NDA convener Sharad Yadav on
Friday said corporate interests were propping up Narendra Modi's name for the
post of prime minister."This is like doing a research for a nuclear bomb.NDA has
never said anything.There are many corporate companies that are at work on
this,'' he said.P 11 EU: Right time to engage with Modi New Delhi: German
ambassador Michael Steiner on Friday declared that the European Union had ended
its boycott of Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi,marking a big step towards
ending his diplomatic isolation.European envoys met Modi last month to discuss
certain issues,including accountability for the 2002 riots.Although Modi's
statements fell far short of the apology that he has been asked to submit for
the riots,the regret may facilitate the process of re-engagement with the a bloc
which has set tough thresholds on issued like inter-faith harmony,human
rights,environment and other concerns.It is also learnt that Modi said all the
"right things'' in the meeting,including that he was all for an "inclusive
approach' ' in the governance.Modi also said that he would respect any verdict
of the judiciary.Taking off from where Cravinho left,Steiner,who hosted the
lunch for Modi,said the EU respected India's democratic institutions,its
election results and also had full faith in India's judicial system."Because of
this respect and trust,we are now in a new phase," Steiner said."We had said
that we would take a fresh look at the issue after the Gujarat elections and
that is what we are doing when we talk to him directly," he said,refusing to
elaborate.For Modi,of course,it means yet another significant endorsement in the
run up to the 2014 parliamentary elections.The EU apparently felt that this was
the right time to engage with Modi as he had again proved that the people of
Gujarat supported him and his developmental agenda.The invitation to Modi for a
meeting with the envoys was extended to him days after the polling in Gujarat
and before the results were out.The EU already looks upon him as a national
player.The issue of his emerging as a probable prime ministerial candidate for
BJP was not discussed at the meeting.Asked if the EU,which has boycotted Modi
for over 10 years since the riots,was softening,Cravinho had said,"Some months
ago,there was end of one part of judicial process which shows that justice in
India may be slow but it produces results.And that has helped to look towards
closure of what everybody agrees is very terrible set of events''.That is a fig
leaf for the volteface the Europeans have effected in the decade after they
banned Modi from travelling to Europe following the riots.The US had sent a
business and official team to the CM's biennial jamboree,Vibrant Gujarat,last
month and the expectation was that this would pave the way for the ultimate US
acceptance.However,with a new Obama administration taking shape in
Washington,particularly a new state department under the secretary of state John
Kerry,it is unlikely a decision will be made anytime soon.Sources indicated that
a change of heart in Washington was well on its way,though it is unlikely to
happen this year.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             324 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             April 6, 2013 Saturday
                                  Pune Edition

Congress calls Modi 'Yamraj',BJP cries foul

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 704 words



HIGHLIGHT: Jibe Was In Response To BJP's Dig At Rahul's Speech


New Delhi: Congress on Friday retaliated against BJP's digs at Rahul Gandhi's
CII speech by likening Narendra Modi as "Yamraj" (Lord of death),ratcheting up
war of words with the saffron outfit over Gujarat CM who is likely to emerge as
the party's PM candidate for 2014 polls.AICC spokesman Rashid Alvi denied
suggestions that Rahul Gandhi had aimed at Modi when he debunked the idea of a
miracle-man by metaphor of "man charging on a horse" at the CII meet on
Thursday."Had he intended to point to Modi,he would not have referred to
somebody riding a horse but somebody riding a buffalo (yama's vehicle).You know
who has buffalo as a vehicle..... Rahul j i has talked about somebody coming on
a horse,he must be referring to a messiah,"Alvi said.BJP quickly reacted to
"Yamraj" barb saying that Congress had stooped to uncivil language to deflect
attention from UPA's misdeeds.It also said that the diversionary ploy would
backfire just as Sonia Gandhi's " m a u t k a s a u d a g a r" jibe at Modi had
boomeranged on Congress in the 2007 Gujarat elections.BJP spokesperson Nirmala
Sitharaman said,"They are engaging in political discourse of intemperate
language but what can be expected from a party whose chief once called Modi a m
a u t k a s a u d a g a r.' " Congress's focus on Modi's riot stigma comes after
a period where it held its fire recognizing that the Gujarat CM turned these
barbs to his advantage by effecting religious polarization.On Friday,party did
not seem to harbour any such doubt,with I&B minister Manish Tewari also poking
fun at Modi for saying he wanted to "repay the debt of India" - something that
has been interpreted as an expression of Gujarat CM's PM ambition."I hope he
(Modi) doesn't want to do in the rest of India what he did in Gujarat in
2002,"the minister said.Tewari said anyone like him,"who believes in the idea of
India,plurality of Indian ethos and is committed to the Indian
Constitution",would be worried by the Gujarat leader's comments.Sources said the
bid to pile the anti-Muslim riots stigma on Modi was in retaliation to the
shrill comments from BJP after Rahul Gandhi's CII address.Congress leaders said
that some of the remarks made by the opposition were downright "personal and
abusive".Congress leaders said they were not worried about falling in the "Modi
trap",arguing that while the focus on 2002 may benefit Gujarat CM with Hindu
polarization,it also makes him more unacceptable to a large number of regional
parties that are seen as post-poll allies.JD(U) Nitish Kumar may be forced to
take an early call on his ties with the BJP Modi's rising aggression
increasingly pitches him as the PM candidate that the Bihar CM has decided not
to accept.Also,colouring Modi with anti-Muslim image would help in widening the
rift between those pro and anti-Modi groups within the BJP itself,a Congress
ader said.Senior leader L K Advani's recent comment that BJP has to increase its
trust with the minorities was seen as a barb at Modi and Congress's criticism
appeared like wading into the saffron battles.Modi welcome to apply,visa
decision on 'merits' Washington: Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi is
''welcome'' to apply for a US visa and the case will be reviewed on merits,the
Obama administration said on Thursday,extending the suspense over whether and
when the controversial Indian politician,barred from entering the United
States,will be acceptable to Washington.The Modi visa issue surfaced again at
the State Department briefing when the official spokesperson was asked about the
recent visit by a Congressional delegation to Gujarat during which they
reportedly invited Modi to visit the United States.Asked if the invitation for
Modi to apply for a visa indicated a change in US policy that revoked it on
grounds of his alleged role in the 2002 riots in Gujarat,the official,Victoria
Nuland,repeated that there is no change in policy and he is welcome to
apply.''All visa decisions are made on a case by case basis,and I'm not going to
prejudge it here,'' she intoned.However,in an indication that Washington may
ease up on the proscribed Indian politician,Nuland conveyed that the
Congressional call on Modi had the approval of the state department.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             326 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 10, 2013 Sunday
                                 Mumbai Edition

US signals greater acceptance for Modi

BYLINE: Chidanand Rajghatta TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 603 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ready To Put Behind 2002 Riots Issue


Washington:The antagonistic official US view of Gujarat chief minister Narendra
Modi is gradually being tempered,seemingly in the light of his frontrunner
status to lead India.The subtle changes come amid continuing efforts by his
expatriate fan base to exculpate him for the 2002 riots.US officials,some
lawmakers,and the country's corporate community at large appear keen to put
behind the stigma associated with the controversial politician.They have
signalled they are keen to put the 2002 issue behind,a message that appears to
stem from the perception that the UPA government's fortunes are in decline and
that of Modi are on the upswing.Arecent Goldman Sachs report titled "Modi-fying
our view: raise India to Marketweight" expressing bullish sentiment on India at
the prospect of the Gujarat CM becoming PM seems has accelerated efforts to
resurrect Modi's reputation.The Goldman Sachs report,which has caused heartburn
in the UPA,isn't the first to speculate on these lines.American lawmakers and
policy planners have been primed over the past year for the return of the BJP to
power at the Centre,with Modi possibly at the helm as Prime Minister,following
what US analysts say is a "precipitous" decline in the Congress party's
standing.A September 1,2012,report by the US Congressional Research Service
(CRS),a bipartisan and independent research wing of the US Congress that
provides briefs for American lawmakers,has already gone where Goldman Sachs is
now treading: boldly projecting a BJP resurgence.It has also forewarned
Washington about the possible elevation to the Prime Minister office of Narendra
Modi,who was denied a US visa in 2005 for his alleged complicity in the 2002
riots."Although still in some disorder in 2011,there are signs that the BJP has
made changes necessary to be a formidable challenger in scheduled 2014
polls.These include a more effective branding of the party as one focused on
development and good governance rather than emotive,Hindutva-related issues,"
the report noted."Among the party's likely candidates for the prime ministership
in future elections is Gujarat CM Narendra Modi,who has overseen impressive
development successes in his state,but who is also dogged by controversy over
his alleged complicity in lethal anti-Muslim rioting there in 2002," the report
noted in a surprising projection,before Modi was officials declared PM
candidate.It said Modi has in the past been denied a US visa under an American
law barring entry for foreign government officials found to be complicit in
severe violations of religious freedom.That visa denial,US officials are now
suggesting,will not apply if Modi indeed becomes PM.Dismissing visa as a
non-issue,one US official was quoted telling PTI this week that it was largely a
creation of the Indian media and not at all an issue in the US government."I
think the US had a very strong relationship with the previous Indian government
when it was under BJP leadership," the official said.The official explained
"there is not a lot of angst about him (Modi)" in the US government,but the
administration has decided to maintain the status quo... because it might be
seen as an interference in India's domestic politics,with various political
parties seeking to make capital out of any decision in the US.But US lawmakers
are not constrained by such perception issues.A day after the Obama
administration indicated the denial of visa to Modi would be overturned if he
becomes PM,key Republican lawmakers are reported to have invited him to address
an Indian-American community event,albeit via satellite,on Capitol Hill next
week.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             327 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            November 10, 2013 Sunday
                               Bangalore Edition

US view of Modi being tempered

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 145 words


Washington: The antagonistic official US view of Gujarat chief minister Narendra
Modi is gradually being tempered,seemingly in the light of his frontrunner
status to lead India.The subtle changes come amid continuing efforts by his
expatriate fan base to exculpate him for the 2002 riots.US officials,some
lawmakers,and the country's corporate community at large appear keen to put
behind the stigma associated with the controversial politician.They have
signalled they are keen to put the 2002 issue behind,a message that appears to
stem from the perception that the UPA government's fortunes are in decline and
that of Modi are on the upswing.A recent Goldman Sachs report titled "Modi-fying
our view: raise India to Marketweight" expressing bullish sentiment on India at
the prospect of the Gujarat CM becoming PM has accelerated efforts to resurrect
Modi's reputation.TNN

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             328 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday
                                 Mumbai Edition

UP riots: US help sought to identify fake video makers

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 330 words


Lucknow: The UP government has requested the government of India to send a
letters rogatory for judicial international assistance to investigate who
uploaded a fake video clip related to killings in Kawal that led to
Muzaffarnagar riots.The clip allegedly played a major role in vitiating the
atmosphere in Muzaffarnagar,resulting in communal riots which claimed 62
lives.Issued in October by the chief judicial magistrate Muzaffarnagar as per
the international norms,the letter was addressed to the Office of International
Affairs,Criminal Justice Division,Department of Justice,US.It was to be sent to
the GOI to pursue it with the US government for seeking details from the owners
of the Facebook accounts from which the fake video was uploaded.However,the
matter remained pending for oneand-a-half months and now it has been forwarded
to the central government.Principal secretary Anil Gupta confirmed the state
government has written to the Centre and the matter is being pursued
seriously.Regarding the affidavit submitted by the state government in the
Supreme Court in response to the PIL demanding a CBI probe into the riots,he
said,"Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had earlier said that CBI inquiry is not
required because he has already constituted a commission under a retired high
court judge to probe the violence... " On allegations of denying that Kawal
killings led to riots,he said the CM had said that Kawal incident and misuse of
social media after that led to communal tension."Our opposition is mainly on the
parallel drawn by the petitioner between 2002 Gujarat riots and Muzaffarnagar
violence and the demand to form a special investigating team of the CBI to probe
Muzaffarnagar riots as it was done in Gujarat."

The video was of two men being lynched by a mob at Sialkot in Pakistan in
2010.However,it was morphed and uploaded by one Shivam Kumar on Facebook on
August 29 claiming it to be the video of two boys killed in Kawal town of
Muzaffarnagar by a mob.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             329 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday
                                 Mumbai Edition

US court wants Sonia to submit passport details

BYLINE: I P Singh TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 287 words



HIGHLIGHT: Asks Her To Prove Declaration Of Absence By April 7


Jalandhar: A US court on Thursday asked Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to provide a
copy of her passport by April 7 to establish she was not in the US from
September 2 to September 9,2013 as she had claimed in a declaration before it in
a rights violation case.US-based NGO Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) had filed the case
against Sonia for allegedly protecting the perpetrators of the 1984 anti-Sikh
riots.The US court held her declaration of January 10 saying she was not in the
US was not sufficient to prove her absence during the corresponding period.The
Brooklyn Federal Court ruled she must provide some documentary evidence to
corroborate her declaration.Judge Brian M Cogan's order asked Sonia to "provide
a copy of her passport,showing her most recent entry and exit stamps into and
out of the United States,thus demonstrating she was not in the country'' during
the period.The case hinges on the issue whether Sonia was served summons on
Septembers 9 as per SFJ's claims.She had claimed she was not served the summons
as she was not in the country.The case was filed when Sonia was reportedly in
the US and the SFJ had claimed the summons was served on her through the staff
of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York,where the Congress chief
was believed to be undergoing treatment.Sonia submitted the declaration on
January 10 asking the court to dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction as she
was never personally served the summons.1984 RIOTS she was undergoing
treatment.Sonia submitted a declaration on January 10 asking the court to
dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction as she wasn't personally in the US
US-based NGO Sikhs For Justice had claimed that Sonia was served summons in New
York,where

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             330 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 3, 2000 Friday

FROM THE ARCHIVES

SECTION: FROM THE ARCHIVES; Pg. R13

LENGTH: 280 words


25 years ago: On Nov. 3, 1975, The Globe and Mail reported that Ontario
Ombudsman Arthur Maloney was to investigate allegations that the province's
prison system was facing the possibility of major riots. U.S. President Gerald
Ford dismissed Secretary of State James Schlesinger and William Colby, director
of the Central Intelligence Agency, in a major reshuffling of his top national
security posts. Two burglars using alpine ropes broke into Cologne Cathedral,
crawled through air ducts and escaped with priceless Roman Catholic works of art
and gems.

50 years ago: On Nov. 3, 1950, The Globe and Mail reported that United Nations
forces retreated all along the line in North Korea, abandoning 1,000 trapped
U.S. troops near Unsan. India condemned Communist China for its invasion of
Tibet. A huge meteor flashed across the sky, lighting up a wide area of eastern
Canada and northeastern United States. A Vancouver man sent U.S. President Harry
Truman a pair of silk pajamas after he learned that the assassination attempt on
the president's life by two Puerto Rican nationalists occurred while the top
executive napped in his underwear.

100 years ago: On Nov. 3, 1900, The Globe reported that the Montreal Star and
the Mail and Empire had misquoted figures and had shown a lack of patriotism in
endeavoring to make out that U.S. exports to Great Britain were greater than
Canada's. It was expected that the Dominion Election Act, previously passed by
the Laurier government, would prevent against voting irregularities in the
upcoming election. Business was active, streets were crowded and real estate was
booming in Dawson, Yukon, thanks, in part, to changes in mining laws.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             331 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              Philadelphia Inquirer

                   July 28, 2005 Thursday CITY-D-EAST EDITION

News in Brief

SECTION: NATIONAL; BRIEF; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 879 words




In the Nation

Report: FBI backlog grows

in counterterror probes



 The FBI has failed to review more than 8,000 hours of audio wiretap recordings
related to counterterrorism investigations, a backlog that has more than doubled
in size since last year, according to a report issued yesterday. The audit by
Justice Department inspector general Glenn Fine also found that although the FBI
had made progress in improving its translation program, the bureau was still
struggling to analyze recordings quickly enough and to hire and retain qualified
translators. - Washington Post

S.D. airport gets approval

to use private screeners



 The Sioux Falls Regional Airport in South Dakota won U.S. approval yesterday to
drop government screeners in favor of private workers. Sioux Falls may begin the
transition in the fall, the Transportation Security Administration said.
Congress in 2002 replaced private screeners at 424 of the nation's airports with
government workers after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks exposed gaps in airport
protections. The same law that replaced the screeners let airports submit
applications to use private workers starting in November 2004. - Bloomberg News

Gov. Pataki says he won't run for reelection in N.Y.



 New York Gov. George E. Pataki announced yesterday that he would not seek a
fourth term next year, a move widely believed to set the stage for a possible
2008 presidential bid. Pataki, 60, a Republican, recently tested the waters with
appearances in Iowa, site of the nation's first presidential caucus. - N.Y.
Times News Service
Prosecutor drops a charge

against Gotti in kidnap plot



 In a surprise, a prosecutor announced in court yesterday in New York that the
son of late mob boss John Gotti was no longer charged with conspiracy to murder
radio talk-show host Curtis Sliwa in 1992. Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael
McGovern said a charge of conspiring to kidnap Sliwa would remain when the case
against John A. "Junior" Gotti goes to trial next month. McGovern did not
explain why the charge was dropped. - AP

Denomination elects

its first female president



 The Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) has elected a female president for
the first time, the 770,000-member Protestant denomination said. The Rev. Sharon
E. Watkins, 51, senior pastor at Disciples Christian Church in Bartlesville,
Okla., was chosen Tuesday by delegates at an assembly in Portland, Ore. - AP
Princeton scientist gets OK for Soyuz flight in October



 Millionaire scientist Gregory Olsen of Princeton has been confirmed as a member
of a Russian Soyuz crew scheduled to blast off Oct. 1 and deliver supplies to
the International Space Station. Space Adventures, the company that arranged the
$20 million deal with Russia's space agency, made the announcement yesterday. -
AP

In the World

Nuclear work to resume,

Iranian president says



 President Mohammad Khatami said yesterday that Iran would restart some
activities that could be used in making atomic weapons, regardless of the
outcome of talks with European powers aimed at reducing suspicions about Iranian
nuclear ambitions. Khatami said the government had decided to resume uranium
reprocessing at one of its nuclear plants. Iran also said it had developed
solid-fuel technology for its ballistic missiles, boosting the accuracy of the
weapons.- AP

Arrest is made in abduction

of reporter who was slain



 The man suspected of setting up the initial meeting between Wall Street Journal
reporter Daniel Pearl and his kidnappers was arrested yesterday at a Pakistani
bus terminal, officials said. Hashim Qadeer was reported captured in the city of
Gujranwala. Pearl was abducted while researching a story in 2002 and later
beheaded. - AP

Hunt is on in Egypt

for 15 accused in blasts



 Egyptian police were searching yesterday for at least 15 Islamic extremists
suspected of involvement in last week's bombings in the Red Sea resort of Sharm
el-Sheikh, which killed as many as 88 people. Officials said the suspects were
believed linked to another resort attack last fall while operating from a Sinai
desert town. Prime Minister Ahmed Nazief said the government would not be cowed
by attacks and promised to boost security at Sharm el-Sheikh. - AP

After riot, U.S. forces

hand over Afghan suspects



 The U.S. military moved to defuse tension after a riot outside its main base in
Afghanistan by handing six villagers accused of being bombmakers over to local
authorities, officials said yesterday. The riot was sparked Tuesday when U.S.
forces detained the suspected insurgents at Bagram Air Base after raids on their
homes. Demonstrators said they were angry that U.S. troops had arrested the
villagers without consulting local authorities. - AP

13 found guilty in France

in deadly '99 tunnel fire



 A French court yesterday convicted 13 defendants of manslaughter in connection
with the 1999 Mont Blanc tunnel fire and ordered a six-month jail term for the
head of security at the Alpine passage, where 39 people died. The trial followed
a 41/2-year inquiry into the incident, which was sparked by a truck that caught
fire. - AP

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             332 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2012 Thursday

Programme summary of China's CCTV 1100 gmt 13 Jun 12

LENGTH: 532 words


The two announcers are Li Ruiying and Guo Zhijian.

1. 00:02:18 Highlights

Hu Jintao, Wen Jiabao, Jia Qinglin, Li Changchun attend Minorities Art Festival
at Beijing National Stadium.

Wu Bangguo chairs 11th NPC Standing Committee's 83rd chairmanship meeting.

Wu Bangguo meets with Speaker of the Sri Lankan Parliament Chamal Rajapaksa.

Wen Jiabao chairs a State Council meeting on food safety.

Li Keqiang meets with Burmese foreign minister

Shenzhou-9 manned spacecraft is prepared to launch soon

Two former directors of the Chinese Football Administrative Center, Nan Yong and
Xie Yalong, are both sentenced to more than 10 years of imprisonment for taking
bribes.

Iraq reports various bomb attacks, killing 60 people.

2. 00:03:40 Announcer-read report over video: Hu Jintao, Wen Jiabao, Jia
Qinglin, and Li Changchun attend the Minorities Art Festival at Beijing National
Stadium.

3. 00:09:03 Announcer-read report over video: Wu Bangguo chairs 11th NPC
Standing Committee's 83rd chairmanship meeting. The meeting decides that the
27th meeting of the 11th NPC will be held between 25 June to 29 June.

4. 00:11:32 Announcer-read report over video: Wu Bangguo meets with the Chamal
Rajapaksa, speaker of the Sri Lankan Parliament.

5. 00:13:03 Announcer-read: Wen Jiabao chairs a State Council meeting on food
safety.

6. 00:17:23 Announcer-read report over video: Li Keqiang meets with Burmese
Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin.

7. 00:18:55 Announcer-read report over video: Visiting He Guoqiang separately
meets Heng Samrin, honorary president of the ruling Cambodian People's Party
(CPP) and president of the Cambodian National Assembly.

8. 00:23:35 Announcer-read report over video: Shenzhou-9 manned spacecraft is
prepared to launch soon.

9. 00:24:47 Announcer-read report over video: Various government agencies
discuss the selection of new role models of the nation in Beijing.

10. 00:25:38 Announcer-read report over video: Two former directors of the
Chinese Football Administrative Centre, Nan Yong and Xie Yalong, are both
sentenced to more than 10 years of imprisonment for taking bribes.

11. 00:27:10 Announcer-read report over video: The Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development stipulates that rent of public houses should be lower
than the market price of privately-owned houses.

12. 00:27:25 Announcer-read report over video: China's state-owned enterprises
recruit young people to work in China's western region.

13. 00:27:52 Announcer-read report over video: news briefs

China launches its largest electricity transport project.

China presents top awards to scientists working at Chinese Academy of Sciences.

China's submersible Jiaolong is ready to dive again.

China revives the Talimu River.

Opera "Sing in Changbai Mountain" performed in Beijing.

14. 00:29:22 Announcer-read report over video:

Iraq reports various bomb attacks, killing 60 people.

Yemeni government force retakes strongholds in the south.

Tunisia imposes curfew after riot.

US Attorney General Eric Holder on Tuesday told a Senate committee that Justice
Department investigators have interviewed both him and FBI Director Robert
Mueller in the wake of national security leaks.

Source: CCTV-1, Beijing, in Mandarin 1100 gmt 13 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             333 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

Programme summary of Russian NTV "Segodnya" news 1500 gmt 6 Sep 12

LENGTH: 397 words


Presenters: Olga Belova and Aleksandr Yakovenko

Headlines: Putin's TV interview covers Pussy Riot, Magnitskiy List, "tightening
of screws"; university head's murder - likely motive his professional activity;
British tourists gunned down in France; business news - Nokia shares slump on
news about its new smart phone; Paralympics latest - Russia now second; and
Putin's crane experiment hang-glider flight

1. 0130 Putin arrives in Vladivostok as host of APEC summit. An interview with
Russia's English-language TV channel RT ahead of it. NTV correspondent Vladimir
Chernyshev's report. Interview covers the "tightening of the screws", Pussy Riot
, US policy and missile defence in particular, with excerpts in this report.

2. 0815 The head of a business school in St Petersburg is gunned down outside
his home near the city. Man shown in archive footage in the report. His checks
into reported financial irregularities at the school mooted as possible motive.

3. 1045 A family of British tourists brutally murdered in southeast France -
Lake Annecy. NTV correspondent Vadim Glusker reports.

4. 1345 Pilot dies in a MiG crash in the Chita region, near China. Newswire
reports quoted.

5. 1415 A service company's former executive blamed for a Yak-42 airliner crash
with an ice hockey team on board near Yaroslavl last year. Investigations
spokesman Markin gives statement.

6. 1525 PM Medvedev chairs government meeting to discuss federal spending.
Video, voice.

7. 1615 Business news: Nokia shares slump on news about its latest smart phone;
Putin, in Vladivostok, launches a Mazda car assembly line, inspects a new
airport terminal - video; Andrey Kostin, head of APEC's business summit, quizzed
about the cost of hosting the summit, in a clip here; the latest from the
European Central Bank's policy steps on the eurozone crisis; oil, money,
markets.

8. 1915 A "Soviet" figure skater arrested in US on sex charges.

9. 2000 Sexual harassment the subject of NTV's "Segodnya. Itogi" late-night
slot.

10. 2030 Russian medals at London's Paralympics. Russia now ahead of the hosts
as second in the medals table.

11. 2255 Putin flies a motorized hang-glider in a crane migration experiment in
the Yamal region, remote Russia. Report dated 5 September, with details, shows
him fly the plane as one of a crew of two. He talks to the TV about it.

2640 Sign-off

Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 1500 gmt 6 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             334 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

BBC Monitoring quotes from China, Taiwan press 14 Sep 12

LENGTH: 2677 words


The following is a selection of quotes from editorials and commentaries carried
in 13-14 September 2012 website editions of mainland Chinese, Hong Kong and
Taiwan newspapers and news portals available to BBC Monitoring. Unless otherwise
stated, the quotes are in Chinese. The figure in brackets after the quote
indicates the date of publication on the website

9.11 and US embassy attacks

Headline: "Is the US really safer?"

Beijing's Renmin Ribao (Chinese Communist Party newspaper People's Daily)
overseas edition: www.people.com.cn "Eleven years have passed since the
world-shaking '9.11', but is the US really safer? The answer does not seem
optimistic... Even though '9.11' soon became an ordinary day and even though bin
Laden [Usamah Bin-Ladin] was shot dead, the Americans do not feel unconcerned
about their safety. Their worries are not without reason. Overseas, the US is
wearing a 'world's policeman' hat, fanning the flames everywhere and leaving one
mess after another... The two battlefields in Iraq and Afghanistan are still too
appalling to behold... Even in the US, the situation is not bright... Is a
post-'9.11' America safer? One really has to draw a big question mark." (Zhang
Hong, reporter) (14)

Headline: "US must learn to respect other cultures"

Beijing's Global Times (English-language edition of state-run newspaper Huanqiu
Shibao) website in English: www.globaltimes.cn "Two US combat ships are
approaching Libya with the intention of avenging the death of the US ambassador
to the country [Christopher Stevens]... Arabs demand the US respect their
culture. But the cannon-loaded warships will not serve that purpose. Even if
Washington can catch and punish the assailants, the cultural clashes still
remain. US warships can only generate more hatred from the Islamic world..."
(Editorial) (14)

Headline: "US needs collective remedial lesson on respecting other cultures"

Beijing's Huanqiu Shibao (Global Times) website: www.huanqiu.com "...It is hoped
that the US will think twice before its Libya-bound warships and marines take
heavy-handed measures. It must not do anything foolish like 'killing a few
people first to let the Americans vent anger'. This may not be beneficial to the
US. A lot of people in the world have endured the US' anger and the US also
needs to exercise self-restraint, so as to better communicate with the outside
world... The whole of the US needs to a collective remedial lesson respecting
other cultures." (Editorial) (14)

Headline: "US' Middle East strategy: Good at messing things up, not good at
reconstruction"

Beijing's Renmin Wang (People's Net, Chinese Communist Party news website):
www.people.com.cn "The US' Middle East policy has not succeeded over the past 20
years. It supported [former Iraqi president] Saddam in the Iran-Iraq war,
resulting in Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. It invaded Iraq and Afghanistan after
9.11, leaving a mess in the end. It joined forces with Britain and France last
year to settle [former Libyan leader] Gaddafi, leaving a chaotic Libya. This
time its ambassador was 'shot lying down'... The US is good at messing thing up,
but it is not good at rebuilding!.." (Microblog interview with Zhang Guoqing,
researcher, Institute of American Studies, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
(government think-tank)) (13)

Headline: "Raging tide of anti-Americanism sweeping Middle East, 'Arab Spring'
shatters American dream"

Beijing's Zhongguo Qingnian Bao (Chinese Communist Youth League newspaper China
Youth Daily): zqb.cyol.com "Another bloody black '9.11' is etched deep in the
memory of the Americans... The sudden wave of anti-Americanism triggered by 11
September is spreading to the entire Arab world, and its possible far-reaching
consequences are a wake-up call to [US President] Obama and ordinary Americans
to engage in deep reflection..." (Yang Liming, reporter, Washington) (14)

Headline: "US owes too much debt to Islamic world"

Shanghai's Dongfang Zaobao (Oriental Morning Post): www.dfdaily.com "...Obama
said in 2009 that he wanted to improve US relations with the Islamic world, but
has the US really done so in all these years?.. Insulting the Prophet is
absolutely intolerable in the Islamic world. No matter what explanation the US
makes, this film blaspheming the Prophet has American investment and was shot by
Americans and screened in the US. How can the US government stay out of it?..
The US must establish respect for other countries, cultures, civilizations and
religions..." (Interview with Zhu Weilie, director, Middle East Institute,
Shanghai International Studies University (14)

Headline: "Disasters all provoked by 'US film'"

Beijing's Guangming Ribao (Chinese Communist Party newspaper): www.gmw.com.cn
"...While condemning the militants' act of violence of storming diplomatic
facilities and reflecting on the root causes of social turmoil in Libya and
other Middle Eastern countries in transition, one should not overlook a film
called the 'Innocence of Muslims' that directly triggered the consulate storming
incident... Such an unscrupulous 'director' deliberately inciting religious
hatred may not have trampled on any red line of US law, but he should be subject
to the severest condemnation by the media and society. The tragedy of diplomats
being attacked on the 11th anniversary of the '9.11' terrorist attacks reminds
people once again that harmony between different religions is hard won and needs
more careful protection." (Yu Xiaokui, reporter, Washington) (14)

Headline: "US film desecrates the Prophet, Islamic world enraged"

2. "...The negative impact on Egyptian-US relations brought by this incident
will be unavoidable... If a solution acceptable to both sides cannot be reached
on the 'film' issue, it may generate an impact on [Egyptian President] Mursi's
official visit to the US [at the end of the year]." (Yu Yi, reporter, Cairo)
(14)

Headline: "Death of ambassador exposes US' chronic ills"

Beijing's Jinghua Shibao (Beijing Times): www.bjd.com.cn "...The international
community should strongly condemn such grave acts of violence against diplomatic
personnel... Clearly, the US will not have days of peace in the Middle East. The
US' policy of interference around the world may enable the US to gain benefits
for a while, but this will go hand in hand with ensuing trouble. It also gives
us a revelation: Power is indeed precious, hegemony is intolerable.
Unfortunately, the US may understand this truth, but taking the initiative to
give up hegemony and aggressiveness is even more difficult. The US still
stubbornly believes that 'the world needs more Stevens'." (Jia Xudong, research
fellow, China Institute of International Studies (foreign ministry think-tank))
(14)

Headline: "What does another '9.11' show?"

Beijing's Beijing Ribao (Beijing Daily): www.bjd.com.cn "...This is tantamount
to a slap in the face for Obama. The real irony and paradox is that after 11
years, the US is not more powerful and even its own ambassador cannot be
protected. The world is not safer, but has fallen into more chaos and turmoil...
For their own self-interest, the US and West did not hesitate to provoke war and
use armed intervention to violate the sovereignty of other countries and even
engaged in a series of human rights violations, triggering a humanitarian
disaster. By seeing this problem, one can explain why anti-American sentiments
are increasingly high under US-backed regimes and why this tragedy of the
killing of the ambassador occurred..." (Mao Xiaogang) (14)

Headline: "Clash of civilizations triggered by a film"

Beijing's Xin Jing Bao (The Beijing News): www.thebeijingnews.com "A film became
the fuse for anti-American riots and US Ambassador to Libya Stevens became the
sacrificial victim... This is essentially still a clash of civilizations between
the Western world and Arab countries that has been unsolvable for a millennium.
The irony of this tragedy is that, firstly, it opened up a scar in the hearts of
Americans on the 11th anniversary of the '9.11' incident; secondly, the violence
occurred in Libya after its 'democratization'. Even if the mob were Gaddafi
supporters, it will make the US government, which is committed to
democratizating the Middle East, reflect: Democratization may not necessarily
eliminate anti-American sentiment in the Middle East..." (Zhang Jingwei,
commentator) (14)

Japan

Headline: "Japan must return to rationality"

Beijing's Renmin Ribao (Chinese Communist Party newspaper People's Daily)
domestic edition: www.people.com.cn "The Japanese government has carried out a
so-called 'nationalization' of China's territory of the Diaoyu Islands [Senkaku]
and its attached islands and the Chinese government and people firmly oppose and
strongly protest against this... In which direction does Japan want to lead
Sino-Japanese relations? Is Japan ready to bear the price for its vile actions?
By using the fate of the country and welfare of its people as a bargaining chip
for a risky gamble, Japan will suffer a great loss. Japan must return to
rationality." ("Zhong Sheng") (14)

Headline: "Japan's act of stealing islands tantamount to aggression"

Beijing's Renmin Ribao overseas edition: "Japan in the 21st century is still
largely living in the 19th century and 20th century... Japan's process of
stealing the Diaoyu Islands is an act of aggression in violation of
international law and is classed as an internationally illegal act... Learn from
history, treat neighbours as partners and choose cooperation, or wallow in the
past, shift trouble onto others and choose confrontation - Japan must make a
choice on which way to go." (Hua Yiwen, international affairs expert) (14)

Headline: "Diaoyu Islands cannot be bought"

Beijing's China Daily (state-run newspaper) in English: www.chinadaily.com.cn
"...By 'nationalizing' the islands, the Japanese government aims to reinforce
its 'actual control' over Diaoyu Islands and eventually occupy the islands. Yet,
no matter how the Japanese government argues and glosses over its proposal, it
cannot hide its true intention of 'buying or selling' things that belong to
others. Anyone with common sense can see it is absurd, illegal and doomed to
failure... We have the will and the ability to defend our territorial
sovereignty. Any attempt by Japan to covet Diaoyu Islands will end in failure."
(Commentary by People's Daily) (14)

2. (US Defence Secretary Leon Panetta will visit Japan before landing in China
later this month.) "Panetta would absolutely not further inflame China-Japan
tensions, as Washington knows the situation getting out of control is not in US
interests in the region." (Interview with Liu Youfa, vice-president, China
Institute of International Studies (foreign ministry think-tank)) (14)

3. "Washington wants to see the two countries [China, Japan] at odds, so either
of them won't challenge its domination role in the world... Actually, Japan's
relative isolation from the other Asian countries - due to its aggressive
history during World War II and irresponsibility over its history - is not
helpful to the US strategic shift." (Interview with Ruan Zongze, vice-president,
China Institute of International Studies (foreign ministry think-tank)) (14)

Headline: "If Japan acts as US' doll, China and the US are bound to play with it
together"

Beijing's Huanqiu Shibao: "...Based on its own interests, the US is playing with
Japan, the Philippines and others in its palm. Japan is more powerful than the
Philippines, but they are only a small Barbie and a big Barbie... If China and
the US really do head towards a strategic showdown one day, Japan will be a tool
that the two countries are used to playing with, and this showdown is mostly
likely to smash this doll between them first. This process means that Japan will
turn into a gunpowder keg in the western Pacific and it will have a low
probability of a good end. Japan had better get rid of the idea of the US-Japan
alliance helping it to settle the Diaoyu Islands dispute with China militarily.
This will not be fun at all for it." (Editorial) (14)

Headline: "Let us imagine the Second Artillery Corps' exchange of fire with
Self-Defence Forces"

2. "...It is easy to imagine that a rapidly rising Second Artillery Force will
enable China to be in a driving position in the Diaoyu Islands conflict. The
remarks of senior Japanese government officials on the Self-Defence Forces being
involved in the Diaoyu Islands only show their strategic short-sightedness and
overconfidence." (Tang Zhicheng, associate professor, Military Training
Department, Second Artillery Command College) (14)

Headline: "Tensions over disputed islands threaten China-Japan celebrations"

Hong Kong's South China Morning Post in English: www.scmp.com "[It is]
impossible to get the positive sentiments to hold such an event [to celebrate
the 40th anniversary of the normalization of Sino-Japanese ties on 27
September]... It is very likely that the celebration will not be held as
planned." (Interview with Zhou Yongsheng, deputy director of Japan studies
centre, Institute of International Relations, China Foreign Affairs University,
Beijing) (14)

2. "Accidents might take place between China and Japan on some specific patrol
or maritime law enforcement mission, triggering further frictions that are
likely to escalate into military conflicts." (Comments by Deng Yuwen,
editor-in-chief, Xuexi Shibao (Study Times, Chinese Communist Party Central
Party School weekly newspaper)) (14)

Philippines

Headline: "Manila's name game"

Beijing's China Daily in English: "By renaming a part of the South China Sea the
'West Philippine Sea', Manila has managed again to whip up tensions between
itself and China, especially since the waters it claims as its maritime
territory in fact contain China's Huangyan Island [Scarborough Shoal]... Any
reasonable person can recognize that Manila is being irrational if it thinks it
can gain sovereignty over a part of the South China Sea simply by giving it a
different name... Manila's latest decision will do nothing but squander the
efforts both sides have made to quell the recent disputes. China will never shy
away from protecting its territory. The Philippines, therefore, will have to
reap what it has sown." (Commentary) (14)

Leadership

Headline: "Mention of Xi fails to quash rumours"

Hong Kong's South China Morning Post in English: (Reports by China News Service
late on 12 September and by the official Guangxi Daily on 13 September said
Vice-President Xi Jinping had expressed condolences to the family of a deceased
party veteran. Xi has not been seen in public since 1 September.) "The
conspicuous disappearance of China's incoming leader has become an international
topic and a potentially destabilizing factor for the imminent party reshuffle."
(Interview with Zhang Lifan, political affairs commentator and former historian,
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (government think-tank)) (14)

Headline: "Xi Jinping hidden, outbreak of cancer in Chinese Communist politics"

Hong Kong's Apple Daily: appledaily.atnext.com "...This [Xi's whereabouts]
reflects another outbreak of cancer in Chinese Communist politics, and political
and economic shocks in China and Hong Kong will be inevitable..." (Editorial by
Lee Ping) (14)

Headline: "Can Chinese Communist 18th National Congress still be held?"

2. "...Obviously, the health problems of Xi Jinping are no trivial matter!.. If
Xi Jinping cannot take over [as communist party general secretary], the 18th
National Congress personnel arrangements will collapse and affect everything.
Negotiations are bound to start from scratch, but can this be in time for the
18th National Congress? It is no easy matter for a new personnel plan to gain
the consent of the whole party. The political situation in Beijing will fall
into extreme instability and inner-party struggles will be more intense! In this
situation, letting citizens see the government's toughness towards Japan (it
does not matter whether it is really tough) is indeed the best option to divert
attention." (Cheung Wah, commentator) (14)

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             335 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

US says West Indian state chief free to apply for visa - PTI

LENGTH: 262 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 30 Oct: The US, which refused visa to Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra
Modi after the 2002 post-Godhra riots, on Tuesday said he was free to apply for
it now and the system will take its course, a statement that comes days within
the UK ended its boycott of the state.

US Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia Robert Blake also
maintained that his country has "very good" relations with Gujarat while noting
that it was obviously a "very very important" market for American companies.

"... And in terms of Mr Modi, I do not want to speculate. He is free to apply
for another visa whenever he chooses and the system will take its course," Blake
said.

He was responding to a question whether the US will follow suit the UK, which
recently ended a decade-long boycott of Modi following the 2002 riots.

Since the riots, the US has refused to give a visa to Modi to visit the country.
There has been intense speculation on whether the US would follow the UK after
its diplomat met Modi last week, officially ending the boycott of the state.

On Modi emerging a force to reckon with, the US diplomat said he does not want
to speculate on the future outcome of either the state elections or general
elections.

"Those are internal matters. Of course, we will work with whoever is elected and
put into office," Blake told Times Now.

To repeated questions on whether the US will work with Modi, his standard reply
was that he would not speculate on the future.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1836gmt 30 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             336 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 1, 2013 Friday

Programme summary of Russian Channel One TV "Vremya" news 1700 gmt 1 Nov 13

LENGTH: 573 words


"Vremya" news presented by Vitaliy Yeliseyev

0043 Headlines: Russia's new utilities ministry; Kurgan court blasts; Snowden
ready to help Merkel phone tapping probe; Moscow mayor sacks two senior city
officials over recent ethnic riots; US-based Russian ice-hockey player faces
domestic violence charge; Dutch Black Pete (Zwarte Piet) controversy; Berlusconi
weds again; unseasonably warm weather in Moscow

1. 0146 Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has issued a decree establishing the
Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities. Putin is shown meeting former
Ivanovo Region governor Mikhail Men, who has been put in charge of the new
ministry.

2. 0540 Russia's new minister of construction, housing and utilities, Mikhail
Men, has met Prime Minister Dmitriy Medvedev. Presenter-read report

3. 0600 A man trying to smuggle hand grenades into a courtroom in Kurgan
detonated them after being challenged by a court official. Both men were killed
in the explosions.

4. 0638 A German MP has paid a "secret" visit to Moscow where he met fugitive US
intelligence leaker Eduard Snowden to discuss the possibility of him providing
assistance to Germany in a probe into the alleged US tapping of Chancellor
Angela Merkel's phone. Snowden is reported to have declared his readiness to
help.

5. 1008 President Putin has chaired a meeting of the Russian Security Council.
The progress of Syria chemical arms destruction was among the issues discussed.

6. 3034 President Putin has received French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault at
his Novo-Ogarevo residence. Putin is shown expressing satisfaction with the
current state of economic relations between the two countries.

7. 1139 Moscow mayor Sergey Sobyanin has sacked two senior Moscow city officials
over recent riots in the Biryulevo area of the capital.

8. 1237 A US-based Russian ice-hockey player suspected of domestic violence has
been released on bail in Denver, Colorado.

9. 1630 In an interview with Reuters news agency, Russian Prime Minister Dmitriy
Medvedev has denied a link between Russia's gas dispute with Ukraine and the
latter's plan to sign an association agreement with the EU. He is shown
discussing Ukraine's debt for Russian gas.

10. 1747 Correspondent's report argues that a barbed-wire fence Russia has
recently built on some sections of its border with Ukraine does not pose
additional problems to cross-border traffic. The report claims that Ukraine
erected a similar fence on its side of the border two years ago, although "for
some reason, Ukrainian journalists have started worrying only now". The report
acknowledges, however, a shortage of border crossings between the two countries,
which often forces residents of border areas to take long detours to visit their
friends and relatives.

11. 2226 Speakers at an "international conference" in Kharkiv (organized by the
pro-Russian group Ukrainian Choice) have warned against Ukraine signing an
association agreement with the EU. Ukrainian Choice leader Viktor Medvedchuk is
shown complaining in an interview about the Ukrainian government's "harmful"
policies.

12. 2322 Black Pete (Zwarte Piet), the companion of Sinterklaas (Dutch Santa
Claus), faces an uncertain future because of racial overtones.

13. 2646 Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi is reported to have wed
again.

14. 2717 Unseasonably warm weather continues in central Russia.

3000 Presenter signs off

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1700 gmt 1 Nov 13

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             337 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

Running in circles

BYLINE: Eric McGlinchey

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 867 words

DATELINE: Fairfax, Virginia

ABSTRACT

The government in Kyrgyzstan may change, but the faces stay the same. The
country needs a couple of steady outside hands to help it succeed.

FULL TEXT

Whenever I am in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, I wake early and run in the
central stadium. I enjoy it for two reasons: First, it's one of the few places
where I can exercise without Bishkek's feral dogs attacking my ankles, and,
second, that I actually run on the track provides endless amusement for the
gaggle of Kyrgyz politicians I lap as they amble and shoot the breeze.

Some of my stadium acquaintances hold positions of power. Others do not. This
week, those on the in and those on the out swapped places. I'm certain, though,
that it will be the same gaggle at the track next week, negotiating
ever-changing alliances.

For those unfamiliar with Kyrgyz politics, it must appear strange that Roza
Otunbayeva, who emerged from this week's coup as the nation's interim leader,
was foreign minister for both Kyrgyzstan's first president, Askar Akayev, and
for the man who ousted Mr. Akayev, Kurmanbek Bakiyev (who himself was forced to
flee Bishkek on Wednesday). Stranger still is that after each stint Ms.
Otunbayeva subsequently joined the "opposition" and played a central role in the
downfall of her boss.

As my experience at the stadium shows, however, concepts like opposition and
political parties prove an uncomfortable fit with Kyrgyz politics. The press
would do well to drop these terms and begin to analyze the political dynamic for
what it actually is - a handful of political elites going in circles - rather
than in terms suggestive of what we hope Kyrgyzstan can become, a competitive
democracy.

Let me be clear: What happened on Wednesday was not a revolution - it was a
hijacking.

Being president of Kyrgyzstan shares much in common with being captain of a
plane. The president needs a few people to help him rule, say a first officer
and a navigator. Should one of these assistants prove problematic, the president
can replace him with someone from the passenger cabin. The challenge, though, is
that the passenger cabin is small. Eventually, the president must re-use the
same people he previously fired or he must fly solo. At the same time, he
remains vulnerable to passengers banding together, as they did this week, and
tossing him from the plane.

This makes Kyrgyzstan very different from its ex-Soviet neighbors. Why aren't
the presidents of countries like Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan so easily tossed from
power? The answer is straightforward: The Kazakh and Uzbek presidents have
bigger planes - 747s compared to Kyrgyzstan's Cessna.

Should a minister falter or be seen as disloyal, President Nursultan Nazarbayev
of Kazakhstan and Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan can find ready replacements from
within the ranks of hundreds of loyal cadres, many of them holdovers from the
bureaucracy of the Soviet system. Moreover, because Kazakh and Uzbek ministers
know they can easily be replaced, they are far less likely to prove meddlesome
in the first place.

The differences trace back to the 1980s, when the Kazakh, Uzbek and Kyrgyz
political elites were all rocked by riots during Mikhail Gorbachev's perestroika
reforms. Moscow directly intervened to restore political order during riots in
Kazakhstan in 1986 and Uzbekistan in 1989. In February 1990, however, Mr.
Gorbachev decreed an end to the Communist Party's monopoly on power and
effectively told leaders in the Soviet republics that their problems were, well,
their problems.

So when riots came to the Kyrgyz Republic in June 1990, no steady outside hand
followed to restore order to Bishkek's bickering party elite. And while the
Kazakh and Uzbek presidents entered the post-Soviet period with a united, albeit
renamed single party, Kyrgyzstan's new president, Askar Akayev, had to scramble
to put together a piecemeal political system, which has never matured.

The United States and Russia provide hundreds of millions in aid to Kyrgyzstan
each year, largely in exchange for the use of air bases, but the money has done
little to stabilize the country or promote democracy. In fact, Russia's desire
to see the Americans evicted created a military bidding war, the spoils of which
only fueled Kyrgyzstan's political chaos.

Kyrgyzstan is a failed state that needs a couple of steady outside hands to help
it succeed. When President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia visits Washington next
week, President Obama needs to convince him that the United States has no
interest in remaking the political status quo in Central Asia. This means
affirming what Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and de facto leader, has
already stated: that President Bakiyev - now in hiding in southern Kyrgyzstan -
must resign and that we recognize Ms. Otunbayeva's interim government as the
legitimate authority.

Kyrgyzstan is in Russia's backyard, and the fact that we depend on our air base
there for our Afghan war doesn't change that. Presenting a united front with
Russia, however, would help Washington keep its air base and avoid another
bidding war. It would also provide some political equilibrium that might keep
those now on the outs in Bishkek from hijacking the Kyrgyz state again.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Eric McGlincheyis an assistant professor of government and politics at
George Mason University.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             338 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            February 11, 2011 Friday

America's unraveling power

BYLINE: BY GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: BATH, England

ABSTRACT

In Egypt and around the world, we are witnessing an historic eclipse of U.S.
influence.

FULL TEXT

We don't know what will happen. After the high drama of Tahrir Square and Hosni
Mubarak's imminent departure we don't know what will come next.

But if detailed prognostication is foolish and presumptuous, some things can be
said with confidence. No regime that follows Mubarak's in Cairo is likely to be
as friendly to Washington. More generally, American policy is unraveling
throughout the Middle East, and far beyond. We are witnessing an historic
eclipse of U.S. power.

Despite the difficulties American forces have lately experienced - history might
have taught that there are rarely short sharp victories to be won in Afghanistan
or Iraq - and for all the economic challenge from Asia, the United States
remains overwhelmingly the most powerful country in the world, or in history. In
military might it overshadows most of its allies and enemies combined.

And yet America too often seems hopeless and helpless. President Barack Obama is
a churchgoing man and must know the story in St. Matthew's Gospel of the
Centurion, ''having soldiers under me,'' who speaks of the kind of temporal
authority he can exercise. ''I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to
another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.''

Today, when the American president says ''Go,'' no one goeth. That includes even
his supposed friends. The Middle East countries that have received enormously
the largest sums in American aid are Israel and Egypt. But what happens when the
White House tries to call in part of the debt?

First Obama begged Benjamin Netanyahu to desist from building any further
settlements for a short period, to encourage a renewed peace process and help
the Palestinian leadership. Then the president implored Mubarak to leave right
away and enable an orderly transition of power. Both men studiously ignored him.
Even if Mubarak does now depart, it will be on instructions from his own army
rather than from the White House.

Never mind those billions after billions of dollars their countries have
accepted. In their dealings with the Americans, Bibi and Hosni alike might have
borrowed the sarcastic words of Prince Schwarzenberg of Austria after the
Russians had helped suppress the Hungarian rising in 1849: ''They will be
astonished by our ingratitude.''

For that matter, in different contexts, no amount of American cajolery or veiled
threats can persuade the Chinese government to revalue their currency, nor
induce the Pakistani government to cut links between its intelligence services
and the Taliban.

From one side of the world to the other, countries are doing what they think
best for themselves in the circumstances, rather than what the White House, the
State Department or the Pentagon think they should do.

Some of the reasons for this helplessness are obvious enough. President Obama
has been criticized for excessive caution in handling the Egyptian crisis,
advising Mubarak to stand down but not putting severe pressure on him,
expressing approval of the democracy movement without fully embracing it. He
showed something of the same nervous hesitation earlier over popular protest in
Iran.

His critics say that this nervosity is ignoble and misplaced, and that fears
about a new Revolt of Islam sweeping the Middle East are exaggerated. Maybe so,
although there are well-informed people, among them an Oxford historian and a
former American diplomat, who pour cold water on the enthusiasts.

In his learned recent book ''The Arabs,'' Eugene Rogan gave his view that
Islamists would likely win free elections in most Arab countries today. And
another illuminating book, ''The Much Too Promised Land,'' by Aaron David
Miller, tells of his years as a State Department official engaged in what is
forlornly called the peace process. As he says, in the Middle East today the
United States finds itself ''trapped in a region which it cannot fix and it
cannot abandon,'' where America is ''not liked, not feared, and not respected.''

Although Israel is not liked either, it's feared - but also fearful. The Israeli
reaction to events in Egypt has been close to panic-stricken. David Horovitz,
editor of the Jerusalem Post, thinks that Israel's ''concrete strategic
assumptions were liquefied almost overnight'' by the ''colossal psychological
blow'' from Cairo. ''The Israeli government is freaking out,'' says Shmuel
Bachar of the Israel Institute for Policy and Strategy. Those apprehensions may
also be exaggerated, but they certainly aren't incomprehensible, and it could be
that the most intransigent Israelis are more clear-sighted than starry-eyed
Americans who urge Israel to embrace the Arab popular rising.

As Bachar says: ''For the past 30 years we have depended on Egypt's peace treaty
with Israel. Now, suddenly, we have rediscovered the existence of something
called an Egyptian public, the existence of which we've vigorously tried to
ignore.''

We still don't know for certain the degree of popularity enjoyed by Islamists,
in Egypt or elsewhere. Only putting it to the electoral test can answer that,
and Rogan might prove to be too bleak in that assessment, although the election
of a Hamas government in Gaza gives some weight to it. But he is surely right to
say ''the inconvenient truth about the Arab world today is that, in any free
election, those parties most hostile to the United States are likely to win.''

Not so long ago it might have made sense as realpolitik for Washington to back
undemocratic regimes, from the days of ''He may be a son of a bitch, but he's
our son of a bitch'' in Latin America to Mubarak himself, but at least those
regimes could be relied on to co-operate with their sponsor. One of the
consequences of the end of the Cold War is that the old deal no longer holds.

Even Mubarak's departure has been accompanied by the words of his foreign
minister, Ahmed Aboul Gheit, saying angrily that Washington should not
''impose'' its will on ''a great country.''

This is a strange new world the Americans find themselves in, and one where they
are finding it harder than ever to impose their will on anyone anywhere.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: is the author of ''The Controversy of Zion,'' ''The Strange Death of Tory
England'' and ''Yo, Blair!''

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             339 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

Police shootings raise race tension in Miami;
Chief drawing scrutiny after 7th black man killed, all by Hispanic officers

BYLINE: BY DON VAN NATTA JR.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: MIAMI

ABSTRACT

The killings of seven black men by Hispanic police officers have led to marches
on the Police Department's headquarters and an investigation into the police
chief's record by the city manager.

FULL TEXT

The video, shot with a handheld camera, shows brawny Miami police officers
breaking down doors and hauling handcuffed African-American suspects off some of
the city's toughest streets. ''We hunt,'' one officer says in the
five-and-a-half-minute clip. ''I like to hunt.''

But it was not a source of embarrassment for Miami's police chief, Miguel A.
Exposito. The video was part of a reality television pilot, ''Miami's Finest
SOS,'' a project with the enthusiastic backing of Chief Exposito. ''Our guys
were proactively going out there, like predators,'' he says during his cameo in
the video, which surfaced online in January.

A few weeks later, a Miami police officer shot and killed a black man during a
traffic stop in the Little Haiti neighborhood. The man, Travis McNeil, 28, was
unarmed and never left the driver's seat of his rental car when he was shot once
in the chest, members of his family said.

Mr. McNeil was the seventh black man to be shot and killed by Miami police
officers in eight months. The shootings in this racially polarized city have led
to marches on the Police Department's headquarters and calls for a Justice
Department investigation, and the city manager has initiated an investigation
into the chief's record.

Some families of the victims are demanding that Chief Exposito be fired.

''I don't understand how the powers that be can allow these things to keep
happening,'' Sheila McNeil, the mother of Mr. McNeil, said of the Feb. 10
shooting death of her son. ''Something is drastically wrong.''

Chief Exposito, a burly 37-year veteran who became chief in November 2009,
defended his leadership. ''We don't have a violent police department,'' he said
in an interview last week. ''You'll find our officers are very compassionate
with the people they deal with. They will try to de-escalate situations rather
than resorting to deadly force.''

The officer who shot Mr. McNeil is Reinaldo Goyo, a member of the city's elite
gang unit who appeared in the ''Miami's Finest SOS'' video. (The TV show has
since been shelved.)

Detective Goyo would not comment, a police spokesman said. A lawyer for
Detective Goyo did not respond to phone messages.

In an interview last week, Chief Exposito said the video was not supposed to be
for public consumption. ''I had a problem with the production company - it was
not supposed to be on YouTube or anywhere else.''

Miami has a long history of racially charged police shootings, some of which
combusted into deadly riots and U.S. Justice Department inquiries that ended
with police officers in prison. The pattern this time is familiar: All seven men
who were fatally shot by the police were African-American; the police officers
who shot them are all Hispanic.

Questions about Chief Exposito's leadership have galvanized some leaders of the
African-American community, who say that two of the men shot by the police were
unarmed. Police officials would not describe details, but they have said that
during both shootings, the officers had reason to believe their lives were in
danger.

Community leaders also expressed outrage that a 12-year veteran of the city's
gang unit, Ricardo Martinez, shot and killed two men within nine days last
August. Officer Martinez returned to his job six days after fatally shooting one
man, then shot and killed another three days later.

Typically, officers are assigned to desk duty after a shooting pending an
inquiry.

In December, Officer Martinez was charged with selling stolen Bluetooth phone
headsets. He has been dismissed.

The chief's critics say his leadership is markedly different from that of his
predecessor, John F. Timoney, formerly a deputy police commissioner in New York.
During Mr. Timoney's seven-year tenure, the department once went 22 months
without having a police officer fire a weapon. When Mr. Exposito succeeded Mr.
Timoney in November 2009, he assigned more than 100 officers to ''tactical
units'' to fight violent crime.

The units, including the gang unit whose officers have been responsible for the
majority of the most recent shootings, have arrested hundreds of suspects and
removed 400 more guns from the street in 2010 than in 2009, the chief said.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             340 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                              April 2, 2012 Monday

Occupy seeks ways to regain attention;
Visibility has waned, putting movement in need of fresh new tactics

BYLINE: MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1109 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

ABSTRACT

Six months after the Occupy movement first used protests and encampments to turn
the nation's attention to economic inequality, it risks fading to the edges of
the political discourse, observers say.

FULL TEXT

Six months after the Occupy movement first used protests and encampments to turn
the nation's attention to economic inequality, it needs to find new ways to gain
attention or it will most likely fade to the edges of the political discourse,
according to supporters and critics.

''They have fewer people, and it's not a new story anymore that there were
people protesting in the streets or sleeping in parks,'' said Neera Tanden, the
president of the Center for American Progress, a liberal organization that has
strong ties to top Democrats and has encouraged the protests. ''They need to
think of new ways to garner attention and connect with people around the
country.''

Driven off the streets by local law enforcement officials, who have evicted
protesters from their encampments and arrested thousands, the movement has seen
a steep decline in visibility. That has left Occupy without bases of operations
in the heart of many cities and has forced protesters to spend time defending
themselves in court, deterring many from taking to the streets again.

In Oakland, California, which at one point last year appeared to be one of
Occupy's strongholds, activists have had less than a handful of marches this
year and no longer have any encampments in the city, according to a police
official there. In New York, where the police evicted protesters from Zuccotti
Park in November, the few protests in the past few weeks have been smaller than
the ones last year, the police said.

With less visibility, the movement has received less attention from the news
media, taking away a national platform.

Occupy does not have a traditional leadership structure, making it difficult for
the movement to engage in conventional political organizing in support of state
legislators and members of Congress, like the Tea Party has. And some activists,
angry at politicians across the board, do not see electoral politics as the best
avenue for the movement, complicating efforts to chart its direction.

Occupy activists acknowledge that building and maintaining a populist movement
is daunting and that the clashes over the right to protest have drained some
energy.

Bill Csapo, a 58-year-old member of Occupy Wall Street, the New York branch of
the movement, answered the phone number listed on its Web site and offered his
take on the group's standing.

''Are we a little scarred? Of course,'' he said.

He added: ''The people who were driven out of Zuccotti Park in November haven't
gone anywhere and are still working. All the original committed people are still
here. This is not a game - we are trying to save our civilization.''

Brian Grimes, a member of the movement who has been spending his days at
McPherson Square in Washington, where the police still allow sit-ins and tents,
acknowledged that the group needed to adapt its tactics to remain relevant.

''Like you'll find in anything, you can't stick to the same thing,'' said Mr.
Grimes, 35, of Montgomery County, Maryland. ''Whether it's education, health
care or protests, you cannot be static, and you have to change your tactics.''

Mr. Grimes said that new ways of gaining attention could come in the form of
flash mobs or banner drops from buildings, like the ones used by protesters in
Europe.

''We need to keep them guessing,'' he said, referring to the news media and the
police.

The movement's staying power will depend on the success of several events
planned for the coming weeks. Despite recent actions that have fizzled,
including an Occupy Corporations day in February, organizers are planning a
strike and demonstrations on May 1, International Workers' Day. But the response
has been mixed, and activists now say that Americans could show sympathy for the
cause in other ways, like not shopping that day.

Chris Longenecker, 24, a member of the group who is helping to organize the
strike and protests in May, said the lull in attention over the past few months
was due to the group's focus on building up capacity for larger events.

''We are looking to late spring and summer,'' he said. ''We are reconnecting
with our passive supporters who saw us lay more dormant in the winter. We have
spent the vast majority of the winter laying roots across community
organizations and labor and immigration.''

Whether Occupy has a resurgence, it has already had a significant influence on
American politics, making economic inequality - and specifically the top ''1
percent'' - a major issue in the national dialogue.

In December, 48 percent of Americans said they agreed with the concerns raised
by Occupy, although only 29 percent approved of the way the protests were being
conducted, according to a poll by the Pew Research Center.

After that poll, Pew stopped surveying specifically about the movement. ''The
movement was not in the news as much coming into 2012, and the nation's focus
and our polling turned to the Republican primary,'' said Michael Dimock, an
associate director of research at Pew.

News coverage of Occupy has fallen off significantly since late last year,
according to an analysis by the Project for Excellence in Journalism.

In October, coverage of Occupy made up 6 percent of the news generated by news
organizations in the United States. That number climbed to 14 percent in the
middle of November and then slid to 1 percent in December. The number remained
below 1 percent in January and February and has been so small this month that
the Project for Excellence in Journalism said it was equivalent to no coverage.

Although the coverage has fallen off, concerns about economic opportunity and
equality are at the highest levels since the mid-1990s.

In a poll released by Pew on March 2, 19 percent of Americans agreed with the
statement that ''success in life is pretty much determined by forces outside of
our control,'' the highest number since 1994.

What is more, 40 percent of Americans - also the highest number since 1994 -
agreed with the statement that ''hard work and determination are no guarantee of
success for most people.''

Ms. Tanden, of the Center for American Progress, said that even if the Occupy
movement did not regain significant visibility, it would continue to have an
impact on the presidential election, having forced even Republicans to begin
talking about inequality.

''It wasn't Democrats who said that Mitt Romney was a 'vulture capitalist,' it
was Rick Perry,'' she said, referring to the Texas governor and former
Republican presidential candidate.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             341 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Running man

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Magazine Features; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1620 words


Racing around Dublin is one thing. Enduring a marathon across the Sahara or
along the slopes of Everest is quite another. The novelist and extreme marathon
runner Michael Collins explains why he can't resist it

Legend has it that the distance of the marathon goes back to 490BC, in Athens,
when a messenger named Pheidippides was sent on foot from a battlefield near the
town of Marathon to Athens, 42km (26 miles) away, with news of the Greeks'
victory over the Persians. After Pheidippides delivered the message "Nike!"
("Victory!"), it is said, he collapsed and died.

Two millennia later, the sense of urgency that drove Pheidippides has been
resurrected in a subculture of extreme running that pits athletes against
distances far in excess of the traditional distance and in some of the world's
least hospitable places. There are extreme marathons in the searing heat of the
Sahara and Gobi deserts, in the wet of the Amazon rainforest, on the slopes of
Mount Everest and in the deep freeze of the poles.

Each marathoner is driven by personal and, often, philanthropic goals. Whether
championing triumphs over adversity or raising awareness and money for charity,
each runs with a message of "victory". It is one of the noblest types of
sporting masochism into which athletes can be initiated.

My journey into this subculture happened years after I'd burned out on a college
track scholarship. I was living in Chicago, doing my doctorate at a university
near a notorious slum. It typified the abrupt US divide between rich and poor;
the slum was on one side of a park that served as a no-man's-land between it and
a row of regentrified turn-of-the-century homes. It reminded me of a
19th-century battlefield, where opposing armies lined up against one another,
then charged.

In the spring of 1995, after almost four years there, I was attacked by a drug
addict who, without even asking for money, exploded into a frenzy as I walked
past, stabbing me in the back and slashing my arms before I fell to the ground,
where I flayed my legs against what turned out to be a 20cm (10in) serrated
blade. When I managed to get my wallet from my back pocket, the man grabbed it
and disappeared down the Ho Chi Minh Trail, as it was known, an alley that led
back to the slums.

I had been aware of the dangers of living on the front lines of poverty. Two
years earlier a medical student had been dragged down the alley, raped and
murdered, but I'd always felt the invincibility of youth. My first reaction to
being attacked was a sense of shame. I felt diminished. In fact, I was furious
with myself. In the hours that followed, as I came out of shock, I asked myself
how I could have let myself, a scholarship athlete, be taken down like some
creature out on a savannah.

My gut reaction became a mantra of survival: "I've got to get fast." I heard a
cop who'd come to interview me say to a nurse: "What can you expect when you
live in Niggersville?" I was, in his eyes, the problem.

My landlord suggested I get a gun, also informing me, for the umpteenth time,
that I wasn't getting out of the lease unless I found another tenant. I couldn't
afford to gamble on paying two rents while waiting for someone to sublet, so I
stayed, hemmed in by my own poverty as my heart hardened against the inner-city
poor. I hated the sight of them, found myself racing down streets, cursing: the
running man.

At the time the trial of OJ Simpson had taken on huge cultural significance; the
anticipated verdict was predicted to be another flashpoint in race relations.
White America hunkered down while black America waited to spill on to the
streets. It seems like ancient history now, but back then policemen poured into
my neighbourhood. Trapped, all I could do was run and run.

In early October 1995 Simpson was acquitted, setting off Rodney King-like riots.
If the US breathed easier in the wake of the verdict, I was still
psychologically scarred. My new mantra was: "Catch me if you can, nigger!"

A few months after being stabbed, I lined up for the Chicago marathon and, on
pure adrenaline, finished in 28th place. Out of fear and desperation I'd run
myself back to the cusp of a national-class time, a mere five minutes off
qualifying for the Olympic trials. I could still run, although my motivation had
changed from glory to survival.

That spring I spotted a posting for a local 10km race. I thought nothing of it
other than that there was a $250 (EUR 200) prize for first place. The race,
which was sponsored by the parents of the murdered medical student, became a
memorial run to raise money for a scholarship in her name. The father spoke
briefly at the starting line about his daughter, how she'd worked in low- income
clinics, her career choice a life serving the poor. She had been a runner, so
the race was a natural choice to celebrate her life.

The field included friends and relatives, medical students and staff, along with
teenagers from local churches. I remember listening to the father and feeling a
humbling sense of remorse for the reactionary hate I'd let get hold of me.

The run took us past the infamous Ho Chi Minh Trail; a wreath of flowers had
been laid where the girl had been murdered and where, but for fate, I, too,
might have been killed, although, in the heat of the race, I didn't stop to
reflect, just dug deep and pushed hard. The healing had begun deep down, without
words.

I eventually stopped calling people niggers, saw the dignity in individual
lives, saw that day the inquisitive smiles on the faces of black children from a
youth group who hung around after the race as medical-staff volunteers showed
them how a blood-pressure cuff worked and let them listen to one another's
hearts with stethoscopes. The fraternity eclipsed the race, which had been
merely a pretext to reach across a socio-economic divide.

In the ensuing years I left behind road racing for extreme marathons, in which
athletes with life-altering experiences gather to share the vastness and mystery
of our world, where we travel as fellow pilgrims to pit ourselves against
nature. We are mindful of our secrets. This is not a culture of braggarts or
proselytisers. I have found the perfect balance of my boyhood need to run and my
adult need to do good. Each marathon has had a profound effect on me.

In 1997, after my first year of gainful employment, I quit my job, mindful that
I had been given a second chance in life. I swore off the nine-to-five-job
track, then headed south, where I tangoed at midnight in Buenos Aires as
Argentina's economy collapsed. Four days later I read The Rime of the Ancient
Mariner aboard a Russian ice-breaker while crossing the Drake Passage, from Cape
Horn to the Antarctic, where I ran the Last Marathon.

In October 1999, to celebrate the end of the millennium after writing my novel
The Keepers of Truth, which would go on to be shortlisted for the Booker Prize,
I travelled to the border of India and Nepal for the Everest Challenge, an
arduous 160km (100-mile) race. En route to India I stopped to experience the
robotic efficiency of South Korea, a country like a giant video game, then
travelled through the smog and abject poverty of Old Delhi before departing for
the hillside spirituality of Darjeeling, snaking my way towards Everest, where
monks in saffron robes blessed our passage.

This year, I continued what has become a tried-and-tested methodology: six
months writing a book, then six months of extreme training, then escaping the
modern world for some distant and exotic marathon. I came up with a challenge
for myself, which I called Fire & Ice, that involved running two marathons five
weeks apart, one in extreme heat, the other in extreme cold.

In February I lived in a refugee camp in the desert for six days, preparing to
compete in the Sahara half-marathon. I saw the extreme poverty of the stateless
Saharawi people, felt the tragedy of a lost generation awaiting a return to
their homeland. It was an experience so humbling that I plan to return next year
to lead a marathon group committed to raising funds for the camp's schools.
Almost incidental to the sociopolitical impact of the experience was the fact
that I outran a former world marathon champion and London marathon winner.

Five weeks later, in April, I headed north to compete in the North Pole
marathon, in which the noblest of deeds were silently accomplished alongside the
sheer madness of running on ice at the top of the world. The event wasn't merely
about the vainglory of reaching a geographical landmark. A gruelling race saw
some athletes out for almost 10 hours in temperatures of minus 30 degrees. The
next day, huddled and tired, they left the comfort of their heated tents and
completed their humanitarian mission. I watched them move towards a hillock
where they put letters in a makeshift grotto. One later explained what had gone
on. The letters were for Santa, from terminally ill children whose last wishes
were that Santa read them. Sadly, almost a third of the children died before
their letters were left at the pole. It is the most indelible memory I have of
the Arctic.

I give you this glimpse into our secret lives, into what goes on in our
subculture of extreme marathon running. If by chance we meet in some distant
land, on a starting line, expect in my eyes not such noble sentiment but the
atavistic stare of a predator high on adrenaline. We are a breed half competitor
and half humanitarian. It's what sees us through these marathons over
unforgiving terrains, what gets us to the finish line. There will be time enough
to talk honestly in the days after, in the journey home.

Michael Collins's new novel, The Secret Life of E Robert Pendleton, is published
by Weidenfeld & Nicolson, £12.99

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             342 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 25, 2008 Saturday

Year of corn

BYLINE: By Tom Webb Pioneer Press

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1093 words


NORSELAND, Minn. -- Farmer Peter Anthony is perched in his combine, pushing deep
into one of the thickest stands of corn he's ever grown. On a digital screen in
the cab, the numbers are ever changing.

YIELD: 225.2 ... 230.0 ... 231.6 ...

That puts yields in this Nicollet County cornfield over 225 bushels an acre -- a
phenomenal crop Anthony admits "would have been unbelievable to us in the middle
of June," when soggy and chilly weather was hindering the young plants.

This autumn, what's surprising is how well the 2008 crop turned out, not just
here on the Anthony family farm but across much of Minnesota, and across the
nation, too.

The 2008 growing season has been the wildest of rides. Spring planting arrived
late, and floods ravaged the heart of the Corn Belt. Then panic hit the grain
market. Would the world run short of corn? Or wheat? Or soybeans? As fear of
shortages spread, grain prices shot to almost unimaginable levels.

Then just as quickly, everything reversed at midsummer. Good growing weather
returned. The troubled economy softened demand. Grain prices plunged. Now, the
U.S Department of Agriculture predicts Minnesota will harvest its largest corn
crop in history -- and the United States will enjoy its second-largest corn
harvest ever. The strange journey has left the grain trade amazed.

"This crop has been through almost every conceivable hardship it could, except
for an early freeze, and I think they're going to find that the yields are
pretty good," said Darin Newsom, senior analyst for DTN, a commodity information
firm. "The general attitude is, the yields are going to be fine."

And that talk of food shortages? That's much subdued -- at least for now --
muted by a 12 billion bushel U.S. corn crop, a 3 billion bushel soybean crop and
a shaky global economy.

Here in Nicollet County, nestled in the crook of the Minnesota River, the corn
crop looks headed for a county record. What's doubly welcome for many grain
farmers is that they've locked in a good selling price and have lots of grain to
sell.

That's not exactly what everyone expected early on.

"In May and June, we thought we'd have a trendline (average) yield at best,"
said Anthony, 32, who farms with his parents, Willis and Rachel, and cousin Eric
Annexstad. With a frosty spring and soggy fields, he notes, "The year got off to
a bit of a difficult start."

To be sure, not every Minnesota grain farmer was so fortunate. Seth Naeve,
soybean specialist at the University of Minnesota, said the dry summer resulted
in lots of disappointing soybean yields.

"It was just short enough on water that the soybeans had a tough time, but the
corn looks pretty good," Naeve said. "We must have been on some sort of a
tipping point with the soil moisture this year."

But the big story of Minnesota farming in 2008 was the extreme volatility in the
markets. Spring wheat prices topped $20 a bushel in February -- then collapsed
to less than $6. Corn and soybean prices spiked in June, only to plummet 50
percent this fall.

"You have to be both gutsy and diversified, and really spread the risk around,"
Naeve said. "This is a time you can make a ton of money or lose a ton of money
with volatile markets, and you can get caught at any time with these markets."

Statewide, the numbers show why this matters beyond the ag sector. In 2005,
Minnesota's corn and soybean crops together were worth about $3 billion. Last
year, rising grain prices pushed that to a record $7 billion. Earlier this
summer, even a $10 billion fall harvest looked possible.

That huge potential pulsed through rural Minnesota. Farmland values climbed.
Farm income set records. Agribusiness stocks boomed. In the grain business this
summer, the only decline came from farm subsidies, because every crop was too
profitable to merit many government checks.

"Because of where commodity prices have been, I don't anticipate we'll be making
any counter-cyclical payments in 2008, for any crop," said Perry Aasness, head
of Minnesota's Farm Service Agency.

Naeve, the soybean specialist, said he was amazed to see once-thrifty and
cautious farmers suddenly "willing to throw money" into all types of ag
products, including some iffy ones, with hopes of reaping another bushel or two
per acre. "It was a 180-degree shift in the mindset of farmers," he added, "to
putting everything they could to increase that crop."

Yet, if the boom left growers a little giddy, it also left grain users angry.

Livestock operators were livid about high-cost feed and the resulting
significant losses. Foreign grain buyers were panicked about soaring prices and
alarmed by the outbreak of food riots. U.S. consumers resented the ever-rising
cost of groceries.

The Anthony farming operation sees the picture from both sides, as a grain
producer and a grain user. It raises hogs and feeds cattle, in addition to
growing corn, soybeans, wheat, peas and sweet corn. About two-thirds of its corn
crop is fed to its hogs.

So, in a disastrous year for hogs but a magical one for corn, how'd it all work
out?

"If you're both growing corn and feeding hogs, at the end of the season it's
still a profitable year," said Anthony, who is Nicollet County president of the
Farm Bureau.

But for those who must buy corn to feed hogs, he added, "it doesn't look good at
all."

Not many southern Minnesota farmers grow wheat, but after studying history at
Oxford and observing British farming techniques, Peter Anthony wanted to try it.

All around rural Minnesota, the great worry now is whether a vicious squeeze is
dawning for 2009. Grain prices are way down, but costs for seed, fertilizer and
land rents are not.

Peter Anthony's father, Willis, gave some examples. In 2008 he paid $150 a ton
for nitrogen fertilizer. For next year, the asking price is $850 a ton.
Phosphorus costs were $260 a ton in 2008; now, it's $960 a ton. The Anthonys are
better situated than many farmers, because they can use hog manure as
fertilizer.

"There's a lot of concern about 2009, seeing the rapid rise of input costs and
land-rental costs," said Kent Thiesse, an agricultural banker at MinnStar Bank
in Lake Crystal, Minn. "As you look ahead, it may be hard to project a lot of
profitability."

On the Anthony place, Peter, the fifth generation of his family to farm the
land, tries to take the long view.

"It's a cyclical business," he says. "Things go up and things go down, and a
person needs to keep that in perspective."

Then he climbs back into the combine. There's still 100 acres of corn to be
harvested here, and it sure looks good.

Tom Webb can be reached at 651-228-5428.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A combine operated by Peter Anthony cuts a swath through a 160-acre
cornfield he was harvesting Tuesday morning in New Sweden Township, notfar from
his home and farm in Norseland, Minn., just north of St. Peter. After a wild
year, the fall corn harvest is under way.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             343 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday

Deaths Elsewhere / Medal of Honor recipient dies at 100

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1488 words


Retired Navy officer John Finn, who received the Medal of Honor for bravery
during the Japanese attack on military installations in Hawaii that plunged the
United States into World War II, died Thursday at the Veterans Home of
California in Chula Vista.

At 100, Finn was the oldest surviving recipient of the nation's highest medal
for valor and the only recipient still alive among those who received the medal
for actions during the attack of Dec. 7, 1941.

Although he was a guest of honor at numerous gatherings of veterans and Medal of
Honor recipients -- including at the White House, where he was greeted by
President Barack Obama -- Finn routinely declined to accept the accolade of
hero.

"I can't believe this," Finn told the more than 500 people who gathered last
year at a local diner to celebrate his birthday. "All I ever was was an old swab
jockey. ... What I did I was being paid for."

Rousted from bed by the explosions that chaotic morning in Hawaii, Finn
immediately manned a machine gun and began firing at the Japanese attack planes
that swooped low over the naval air station at Kaneohe Bay on their way to their
primary target, the U.S. planes and ships at Pearl Harbor.

"I loved the Navy," he often told reporters, "and that day, I was just furious
because the Japanese caught us napping and made us pay for it."

Wounded numerous times by bullets and shrapnel, Finn refused to be evacuated.
His leadership and courage gave heart to dazed sailors to begin fighting back
against the new enemy.

At Kaneohe Bay, he was a chief petty officer and an aviation ordnance chief
assigned to maintain the weaponry on a PBY Catalina flying boat squadron.

When the attack began, Finn found a .50-caliber machine gun in the armory and
mounted it on an instruction platform, which provided him no protection. Despite
his wounds, he kept firing and reloading for more than two hours.

"It was only by specific orders that he was persuaded to leave his post to seek
medical attention," according to the Medal of Honor citation. "Following first
aid treatment, although obviously suffering much pain and moving with great
difficulty, he returned to the squadron area and actively supervised the
rearming of returning planes."

During the war, Finn served as an instructor and aboard several ships, including
aircraft carriers. Promoted to the officer ranks, he left active duty in 1947
and joined the reserves. He retired in 1956 as a lieutenant.

In retirement, he worked as a gunsmith, ran a salvage yard and raised horses and
cattle. He spoke often of the Navy as a good career choice for young men and
women.

Finn was particularly important to aviation ordnance specialists: sailors whose
job, while significant to projecting air power, is decidedly unglamorous. Last
year at the U.S. Navy facility in the Persian Gulf nation of Bahrain, aviation
ordnance specialists held a ceremony in Finn's honor.Martin Gardner, 'Skeptical'
author

Martin Gardner, for 25 years the master of matters mathematical for Scientific
American's "Mathematical Games" column and later the punisher of the paranormal
and the pseudoscientific in his column "Notes of a Fringe Watcher" for the
Skeptical Inquirer, died May 22 at a hospital in Norman, Okla. He was 95. No
cause of death was announced.

A prolific, insightful, concise and clear writer, Gardner wrote more than 70
books about mathematical puzzles, pseudoscience, philosophy and the arcana of
"Alice and Wonderland," G.K. Chesterton and other popular works and authors.

Though Gardner was not a mathematician himself, his lucid explanation of puzzles
and other mathematical phenomena seduced a generation of youngsters into the
field.

"When I was 14 years old, at the height of the Vietnam War, I picked up a copy
of Scientific American," Dennis Shasha of New York University's Courant
Institute of Mathematical Sciences wrote in a tribute on Scientific American's
website. For the most part, the articles were impenetrable, he said. "Then I got
to Martin's column. A whole new world opened for me."

"This is really a sad day ... because he had such a profound influence on so
many of us," Gardner's friend Douglas Hofstadter, the Pulitzer Prize-winning
author of "Godel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid" who succeeded Gardner
at Scientific American, wrote on the magazine's website. "He is totally
unreproducible -- he was sui generis -- and what's so strange is that so few
people today are really aware of what a giant he was in so many fields."

Those included "the propagation of truly deep and beautiful mathematical ideas
(not just 'mathematical games,' far from it!); the intense battling of
pseudoscience and related ideas; the invention of superb magic tricks; the love
for beautiful poetry; the fascination with profound philosophical ideas; the
elusive border between nonsense and sense ... and on and on and on and on,"
Hofstadter said.

In 1976, Gardner, Carl Sagan, Isaac Asimov and others formed the Committee for
the Scientific Investigation of the Paranormal to debunk false science. The
group, now known as the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry, publishes a journal,
the Skeptical Inquirer, for which Gardner wrote a monthly column until 2002.

In later years, Gardner compiled a series of annotated works, including the
"Alice in Wonderland" stories, in which the wide margins of the books were
filled with carefully researched information about obscure references in the
stories, philosophical underpinnings and other interesting facts. His research
showed, for example, that the "golden afternoon" on which "Alice in Wonderland"
occurred was actually cool and damp.Raymond Haysbert, pioneering CEO

Raymond V. Haysbert Sr., whose Parks Sausage Co. became the first black-owned
business in the U.S. to go public in 1969, has died at age 90.

He died Monday at Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore after suffering from
congestive heart failure, his son Brian Haysbert said Tuesday.

Born in poverty, Haysbert became a member of the famed Tuskegee Airmen, serving
in Africa and Italy in World War II before settling in Baltimore. There, he
joined the company started by Henry Parks that became well known throughout the
Northeast by advertisements featuring a hungry boy asking, "More Parks Sausages,
Mom, please!"

Former Baltimore congressman and NAACP leader Kweisi Mfume said that in addition
to his role as chief executive at Parks, Haysbert was a political adviser and
community leader who became "synonymous with the struggle for entrepreneurship
among African Americans at a time when it wasn't very popular."

Haysbert was also campaign treasurer for Sen. Harry Cole, the first black state
senator in Annapolis, and helped integrate Baltimore politics by working to get
Parks elected to the council in 1963.

Haysbert, who had suffered several heart attacks in recent years, remained
chairman of the Greater Baltimore Urban League until his death, bringing the
organization back from the brink of bankruptcy.David Ginsburg, political lawyer

David Ginsburg, a liberal lawyer and longtime Washington insider who helped
found the Americans for Democratic Action and led the presidential commission on
race relations and whose 1968 report warned that the United States was "moving
toward two societies -- one black, one white, separate and unequal," died Sunday
at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 98.

The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Mark Ginsburg said.

Ginsburg arrived in Washington in 1935 and quickly emerged as one of the
brightest of the New Dealers. He helped draft laws on price controls during
World War II and served as an adviser on reorganizing the German economy after
the Allied victory.

In 1967, as race riots engulfed Detroit and Milwaukee, after similar
disturbances in Los Angeles, Newark and Chicago, President Lyndon Johnson
appointed Ginsburg executive director of the National Commission on Civil
Disorders. Known as the Kerner Commission after its chairman, Gov. Otto Kerner
of Illinois, the panel was charged with seeking out the causes of the riots and
proposing solutions.

In a report that became a surprise best seller when issued in paperback, the
commission argued that the riots were a form of social protest by blacks against
longstanding injustices and that white Americans, largely oblivious to the
plight of black citizens, were complicit in creating a racist, economically
oppressive society.

In the 1970s, Ginsburg successfully represented Henry Kissinger in his long
battle to keep private the transcripts of his telephone conversations while
serving as secretary of state and national security adviser under President
Richard Nixon.

In 1980, the Supreme Court, reversing the decisions of two lower courts, ruled
in Kissinger v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press that the
transcripts did not fall under the Freedom of Information Act because they were
outside the executive branch.

-- Los Angeles Times, Associated Press, New York Times

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             344 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday

St. Paul minister a 'Brave Thinker' for gay rights stand, magazine says

BYLINE: By Frederick Melo fmelo@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; North Zone Stories; Ramsey County; Local

LENGTH: 139 words


Alongside the likes of New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Chinese civil rights
activist Chen Guangcheng, the Atlantic Magazine has included in its annual list
of 21 "Brave Thinkers" a St. Paul minister who spoke out in favor of gay rights.

The list celebrates outspoken leaders who risked "reputations, fortunes and
lives in pursuit of big ideas," and notes that the Rev. Oliver White lost his
East Side church to financial ruin after many in his predominantly-black
congregation abandoned him for supporting gay marriage rights.

White, who pastored the Grace Community United Church of Christ for 22 years,
still hopes to find a new building for his remaining flock.

Others on the "Brave Thinkers" list include the Russian feminist rockers known
as Pussy Riot and U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Roberts.

The full list is availablehere .

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             345 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                             The Malta Independent

                                October 25, 2016

New doc shows militarization of US police from the inside

LENGTH: 696  words


The documentary "Do Not Resist" provides a timely look at the state of policing
in the United States, from the escalation of SWAT raids to the unregulated
technology police departments are using.

Director Craig Atkinson for over two years traveled around the country shadowing
various police departments in their everyday activities. The film is now playing
in limited release, with weeklong runs launching in Washington, D.C., and Los
Angeles on Friday, and expanding throughout Oct. and Nov .

ADVERTISEMENT

Atkinson, the cinematographer on the documentary "Detropia," was first intrigued
to pursue the issue of police militarization after seeing the police response to
the Boston Marathon bombing and the military grade equipment they used. He was
struck by how police acted more like an "occupying force," he said.

"I was seeing reports coming out later where people were handcuffed face down on
their front lawn detained, no charges filed, no questions, police officers
entering homes without search warrants," Atkinson said.

It was just different from what he'd known. Atkinson has in some ways been
observing the police his entire life. His father was an officer for 29 years
outside of Detroit and a SWAT member from 1989 to 2002. As a boy, Atkinson would
tag along to training exercises and play hostage. When he got a little older he
would play the role of armed assailant.

"I always had a great deal of respect for the work he was doing," Atkinson said.
"He was a very upstanding officer."

He knew, too, in the War on Terror era that police, and SWAT, were getting a bad
rap and thought it would be a good idea to go behind the scenes and show it as
it really happens- "the full breadth of the SWAT experience."

What he found, however, was not what he expected. In one department, SWAT was
being used for raids over 200 times a year. It was a striking difference to the
experience of his father, who, in a similarly sized department, did 29 search
warrants in 13 years.

"We never found an opportunity where you see the equipment being used in a
situation where you would actually want it used," he said. He thinks something
like the Florida nightclub shooting was one instance where SWAT was in fact used
appropriately.

The issue of the militarization of police in the United States has been vexing
the country for years, most pointedly during the police-shooting protests in
Ferguson, Missouri, where police wore riot gear and deployed tear gas, dogs and
armored vehicles, sometimes pointing assault rifles at protesters.

The ACLU has spoken out against it, and the Obama administration, which defended
the use of military vehicles during the Boston Marathon bombing, subsequently
issued stricter controls over weapons and gear distributed to law enforcement.
But it remains a hot button issue in the country, with some passionately
defending the necessity of riot gear for the protection of officers in dangerous
situations.

In the tense aftermath of a police shooting death in Louisiana, for instance,
Gov. John Bel Edwards said a Baton Rouge police officer had teeth knocked out
with a rock thrown by a protester. He said if officers don't use riot gear, "you
have no defense against that sort of thing."

For his part, Atkinson started filming about a year before the events in
Ferguson. Once that happened, he knew his footage would be timestamped around
that, and there became an urgency to finish.

He chose to present the footage in a verite style. Thus, we hear only from those
either involved in policing or public events like congressional hearings or
community meetings.

People encouraged him to include his father's story (he didn't) or a "voice of
god" narration to guide the audience (also absent). Atkinson says his personal
interjections are not the point.

"Everybody already has an opinion about these issues," Atkinson said. "We're
just showing things, we're letting things unfold."

As the film continues its run throughout the country, he's mainly surprised and
"disheartened" that it remains relevant.

"Here we are years later and it's as timely as it ever could be," he said.

2013 Standard Publications Ltd.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/542/1594/89/147740072263.jpeg



LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1594


                    Copyright 2016 Standard Publications Ltd
               Provided by Syndigate.info,an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             346 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 21, 2010 Thursday

John Sebastian: He'll just keep playing

BYLINE: By Paul Freeman For The Daily News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 1050 words


Do you believe in the magic of rock 'n' roll? Then you must believe that John
Sebastian is one of rock history's most magical figures.

With Rock and Roll Hall of Famers The Lovin' Spoonful, the singer-songwriter
created such beloved songs as "Do You Believe In Magic," "Summer In The City,"
"Nashville Cats," "Daydream," "Darlin' Be Home Soon" and "Did You Ever Have To
Make Up Your Mind."

At the time he wrote the memorable tunes, Sebastian wasn't aiming at
timelessness. "I certainly never thought past the next three months. That was
the time frame that we were always thinking of. Get a record out there that has
a life on the charts of three months and you've done it," he told The Daily
News, chuckling.

The son of a renowned classical harmonica player, John Benson Sr., Sebastian was
hanging out with blues greats like Sonny Terry and Lightnin' Hopkins by his
teens.

The young musician discovered the joys of jug-band music. He joined The Even
Dozen Jug Band, displaying his talents on guitar, harmonica and autoharp.

He became part of the burgeoning Greenwich Village folk scene in the early '60s,
accompanying such artists as Fred Neil, Tim Hardin, Bob Dylan and Judy Collins.

Sebastian briefly played with guitarist Zal Yanovsky in The Mugwumps, which also
featured Cass Elliot and Denny Doherty.

"The manager of that band decided that I was having a bad influence on Zal
Yanovsky. And I was. I was playing little licks across the stage to him. And he
would come back with a little lick that wasn't in the arrangement. This was this
time when people still thought that, when you want to put together a group, you
hire a good arranger, then you hire a good songwriter. But I knew that the next
thing was going to be this self-contained unit, where the band writes, plays and
the whole package."

Finding an immediate musical chemistry, Sebastian and Yanovsky founded The
Lovin' Spoonful in 1965. From a band called The Sellouts came bassist Steve
Boone and drummer Joe Butler.

Every Spoonful hit had its own personality. "We didn't want to sound like the
same guys every time out. We relished going, 'Now let's be like a bunch of
country guys.' 'Now let's be like a poor man's Phil Spector,'" Sebastian said.

Inspiration came from all sorts of music. The intro to "Do You Believe In Magic"
came from the opening of Martha and the Vandellas' "Heat Wave."

"We were listening to all the early Motown stuff during that era," Sebastian
said. "Zally and I wanted to have a song that had that straight-eight feel of
'Baby Love' and 'Where Did Our Love Go?' And so it was out of that that I came
up with that figure for 'Daydream.'"

Sebastian sometimes agonized over song details, but sometimes the writing came
quickly. "I wrote 'Make Up Your Mind' on the back of a Lucky Strike pack. I
wrote it in the cab. And by the time I finished the third verse, I'd reached the
studio. I was ready for the session."

Sebastian wasn't ready for the frenzied crowd reactions. "The Spoonful felt like
we had something to offer musically. But we didn't consider ourselves nightclub
idols or anything," he said with a laugh. " You might get lucky on some weird,
off-night at a folk festival somewhere. But girls were not flocking to jug bands
at that time. So we didn't feel that we should be taken that way.

"But it was an unfortunate side effect that these disc jockeys would incite
these poor 14-year-old girls to riot. And to us, it was not really what we were
intending. There were elements of The British Invasion like that, but the music
was all wonderful. And complete fodder for reinvention. And all of us were doing
that. It was back and forth. It wasn't just one way. Paul McCartney has been
very gracious over the years in reiterating how The Spoonful affected The
Beatles."

In 1967, Yanovsky, a Canadian citizen, was busted for pot possession in San
Francisco. Complications from that led to his leaving the band. Sebastian split
a year later.

Sebastian found success as a solo artist, topping the charts with the "Welcome
Back, Kotter" theme.

"The guy looking for the theme song called my manager and said, 'I'm looking for
a John Sebastian-type guy, for an urban-sounding soundtrack to a television
show.' And my manager said, 'Hey, I started managing John two weeks ago. You
don't need the new John. You need the old John.'

"I got along famously with the show's producer, Alan Sachs. We started insulting
each other within five minutes of meeting each other. It was all related to
'Well, you're from Brooklyn and I'm from Manhattan.' So we had this tremendous
insult comedy going back and forth. All the California businessmen thought that
their deal was falling apart. But what was really happening was that we were
bonding.

"The song played into my dyslexic background in school, which was painful. You
can't beat pain as the source for a song."

Now 66, Sebastian is a Woodstock resident. He played the 1969 festival. Of the
Woodstock generation, he said, "The humanism that was part of what we were
espousing, I still see. It's crowded out by the things we didn't do, but there
are wonderful echoes of that period in things like Wavy Gravy's efforts to bring
sight to thousands of children with the simplest medications. He's the real
template for what was good about the '60s, that summer camp for kids with
cancer. He's inspiring. There are people that have carried that message, who
haven't lost it."

Sebastian never lost track of his original musical inspirations. In 1996, he and
his J-Band released a jubilant jug band record called "I Want My Roots,"
followed in 1999 by the "Chasin' Gus' Ghost" album. 2007 brought a duet album
with mandolin great David Grisman. In 2008, Sebastian was inducted into the
Songwriters Hall of Fame.

Sebastian is still going strong. "There's an old joke about a folk singer who
wins a lottery. And he's got $13 million dollars. And they're interviewing him
and they ask, 'Now that you've become wealthy, what are you going to do?' The
folk singer says, 'Well, I guess I'll just keep playing till the money runs
out.'"

E-mail Paul Freeman at paul@popcultureclassics.com .

Music preview

What: An Evening With John Sebastian
Where: Montalvo Arts Center, Carriage House Theatre, 15400 Montalvo Road,
Saratoga
When: 8 p.m. Friday
Tickets: $32-$42; 408-961-5858 or
 www.montalvoarts.org/events

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             347 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands Attend Rally in Washington, Seeking Greater Power for
African-Americans

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and HOLLI CHMELA

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 813 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15


Thousands of African-Americans thronged the Mall on Saturday and demanded action
to overcome poverty, injustice, joblessness and the effects of substandard
schools in black communities.

Speakers, led by Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Nation of Islam, embraced an
agenda of self-help, celebrated the 10th anniversary of the Million Man March on
Washington, demanded reparations for the descendants of black slaves and floated
the idea of a new political party to increase the power of blacks and other
minority groups.

Mr. Farrakhan urged the crowd to mobilize support for progressive social
policies.

''The government will never do for the poor of this nation until and unless we
organize effectively to make government respond to the needs of the poor,'' Mr.
Farrakhan said in an 80-minute speech delivered from the west front of the
United States Capitol. ''We must go back home and organize as never before.''

Mr. Farrakhan said the delayed relief for victims of Hurricane Katrina showed
that poor people and blacks could not depend on the federal government.

''For five days,'' he said, ''the government did not act. Lives were lost. We
charge America with criminal neglect.''

But Mr. Farrakhan's criticism of America and its leaders went much deeper.

''We want more than an apology for slavery,'' he said. ''We want more than a
monument. We want America to acknowledge her wickedness to the indigenous people
of this hemisphere; acknowledge the wickedness of slavery and the trans-Atlantic
slave trade; acknowledge what you did in robbing our fathers of their names,
their language, their culture, their religion.''

Mr. Farrakhan denounced the domestic, economic and foreign policies of the Bush
administration. ''We need regime change in the United States,'' he said.

He accused President Bush of lying to the American people and ''raping the
Treasury'' to pay for the war in Iraq, and he said the president had been
deluded by ''the neoconservative idea of an imperialist America.''

But he caustically criticized Democrats as well.

''We need to think about a new political party,'' Mr. Farrakhan said. ''The
Democrats have used us and abused us. They look at the black and the brown and
the poor like this is a plantation, and our Democratic leaders are like the
house Negro on the plantation of Democratic politics.''

Cries of ''black power'' echoed over the Mall as people congregated there on a
balmy autumn day.

Some in the crowd said they were members of the Nation of Islam, but others said
they simply supported Mr. Farrakhan's goals. In parts of the crowd, the
atmosphere was like that of a family picnic, with people of all ages sitting on
blankets.

Mr. Farrakhan calls his campaign to help the poor and the powerless the Millions
More Movement.

With scant hope of help from white America, Mr. Farrakhan said, blacks must help
themselves by establishing their own ministries of health and human services,
agriculture, education, defense, justice, art and culture, trade and commerce,
information and science and technology.

His message resonated with the crowd. Troy Harris, 34, a film student from
Chico, Calif., said he was encouraged by the speeches.

''Minister Farrakhan has some wise words,'' Mr. Harris said. ''It is time for us
to build up our own services. It is time to organize our own processes. Because
what's there hasn't worked.''

Kyra Jones, 25, a special education teacher from Maryland, said she especially
liked Mr. Farrakhan's message about establishing ministries to serve the
community.

''Imagine if we had ministries during the hurricane and we didn't have to rely
on the government,'' Ms. Jones said.

Peter Sengali, 44, of Chicago attended the march 10 years ago and brought his
wife and two children to the event on Saturday.

''I wanted to show my children, my son especially, that black people,
particularly men, can get together without violence,'' Mr. Sengali said. ''I
hope that they can take this message and bring it back to our community.''

Mr. Farrakhan said his organization was forming a disaster relief fund, and he
urged people to contribute one dollar a week.

In a wide-ranging speech, he combined fund-raising appeals with overtures to
Africa, denunciations of pharmaceutical companies, criticism of the nation's
schools and a harsh evaluation of wealthy whites, who he said were trying to
preserve their privileged position in American society.

Other speakers included civil rights leaders, Hispanics, poor people,
politicians, clergymen, professors, hip-hop musicians and American Indians.

The crowd also watched video presentations by Ricardo Alarcon, president of the
Cuban National Assembly, and Prime Minister P.J. Patterson of Jamaica.

Mr. Alarcon observed ''a lot of misery and suffering'' in the United States. Mr.
Patterson said, ''We stand in solidarity with the survivors of Katrina.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luther Muhammad, center, traveled to Washington from Sacramento,
Calif., to join others from the Nation of Islam at the gathering yesterday.
(Photo by David Y. Lee for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             348 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 14, 2006 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Protest, a Spy Program and a Campus in an Uproar

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Santa Cruz Journal; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 983 words

DATELINE: SANTA CRUZ, Calif.


The protest was carefully orchestrated, planned for weeks by Students Against
War during Friday evening meetings in a small classroom on the University of
California campus here.

So when the military recruiters arrived for the job fair, held in an old dining
hall last April 5 -- a now fateful day for a scandalized university -- the
students had their two-way radios in position, their cyclists checking the
traffic as hundreds of demonstrators marched up the hilly roads of this campus
on the Central Coast and a dozen moles stationed inside the building, reporting
by cellphone to the growing crowd outside.

''Racist, sexist, antigay,'' the demonstrators recalled shouting. ''Hey,
recruiters, go away!''

Things got messy. As the building filled, students storming in were blocked from
entering. The recruiters left, some finding that the tires of their vehicles had
been slashed. The protesters then occupied the recruiters' table and, in what
witnesses described as a minor melee, an intern from the campus career center
was injured.

Fast forward: The students had left campus for their winter vacation in
mid-December when a report by MSNBC said the April protest had appeared on what
the network said was a database from a Pentagon surveillance program. The
protest was listed as a ''credible threat'' -- to what is not clear to people
around here -- and was the only campus action among scores of other antimilitary
demonstrations to receive the designation.

Over the winter break, Josh Sonnenfeld, 20, a member of Students Against War, or
SAW, put out the alert. ''Urgent: Pentagon's been spying on SAW, and thousands
of other groups,'' said his e-mail message to the 50 or so students in the
group.

Several members spent the rest of their break in a swirl of strategy sessions by
telephone and e-mail, and in interviews with the news media. Since classes began
on Jan. 5, they have stepped up their effort to figure out whether they are
being spied on and if so, why.

Students in the group said they were not entirely surprised to learn that the
federal government might be spying on them.

''On the one hand, I was surprised that we made the list because generally we
don't get the recognition we deserve,'' Mr. Sonnenfeld said. ''On the other
hand, it doesn't surprise me because our own university has been spying on us
since our group was founded. This nation has a history of spying on political
dissenters.''

The April protest, at the sunny campus long known for surfing, mountain biking
and leftist political activity, drew about 300 of the university's 13,000
students, organizers said. (Students surmise that, these days, they are
out-agitating their famed anti-establishment peers at the University of
California, Berkeley, campus, 65 miles northwest of here.)

''This is the war at home,'' said Jennifer Low, 20, a member of the antiwar
group. ''So many of us were so discouraged and demoralized by the war, a lot of
us said this is the way we can stop it.''

A Department of Defense spokesman said that while the Pentagon maintained a
database of potential threats to military installations, military personnel and
national security, he could not confirm that the information released by MSNBC
was from the database. The spokesman, who said he was not authorized to be
quoted by name, said he could not answer questions about whether the government
was or had been spying on Santa Cruz students.

California lawmakers have demanded an explanation from the government.
Representative Sam Farr, a Democrat whose district includes Santa Cruz, was one
of several who sent letters to the Bush administration. ''This is a joke,'' Mr.
Farr said in an interview. ''There is a protest du jour at Santa Cruz.''

''Santa Cruz is not a terrorist town,'' he added. ''It's an activist town. It's
essentially Berkeley on the coast.''

The university's chancellor, Denise D. Denton, said, ''We would like to know how
this information was gathered and understand better what's going on here.''

''Is this something that happens under the guise of the new Patriot Act?'' Ms.
Denton asked.

As to the students' insistence that the university is monitoring their
activities, Ms. Denton said that she had checked with campus police and other
university offices and that ''there is absolutely no spying going on.''

The antiwar group is working closely with the California chapter of the American
Civil Liberties Union, which plans to file a public records request with the
federal government on the students' behalf, A.C.L.U. officials said.

Meanwhile, members of the campus's College Republicans, strongly critical of the
protesters' tactics last April, are rolling their eyes at all the hubbub.

''I think it's worth looking into, but right now I think they are overblowing
it,'' said Chris Rauer, internal vice president of the College Republicans. ''I
think people are taking their anger over the war out on this.''

The Defense Department has issued a statement saying that in October the
Pentagon began a review of its database to ensure that the reporting system
complied with federal laws and to identify information that might have been
improperly entered. All department personnel involved in gathering intelligence
were receiving ''refresher'' training on the laws and policies, the statement
said.

With this happening in academia, there has been a good deal of philosophical
contemplation and debate over the socioeconomic and political dynamics
underlying the uproar.

''I had multiple reactions,'' said Faye J. Crosby, a professor of social
psychology and chairwoman of the Academic Senate.

''One reaction was, 'Gosh, I wonder if we're doing something right?' ''
Professor Crosby said. ''Another reaction was it's a waste of taxpayer money.
What are we a threat to?''

''The real sadness,'' she added, ''is the breakdown in discourse of the
marketplace of ideas.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2006



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about a protest against military recruitment
at the University of California, Santa Cruz, that may have resulted in Pentagon
surveillance misspelled the given name of the school's chancellor and because of
an editing error misstated the enrollment. She is Denice D. Denton, not Denise.
Enrollment is 15,000, not 13,000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students at Santa Cruz protested military recruiters last April

the demonstration was said to be listed in a Pentagon database. (Photo by Bill
Lovejoy/Santa Cruz Sentinel)
 Josh Sonnenfeld and Jennifer Low, members of the group that planned the
protest. (Photo by Victor Jose Cobo for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             349 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 10, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Danish Cartoons And U.S. Freedom

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 80 words



To the Editor:

David Brooks brilliantly describes the fundamental clash of two very different
civilizations and the philosophical cleavage of East and West. Unfortunately,
his column does not note that this gap has been worsened by our tragic
involvement in Iraq.

Unless we resolve to put an end to our involvement, we can be assured that the
two civilizations will drift further and further apart, with people everywhere
in perpetual danger.

Samuel J. Landau
New York, Feb. 9, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             350 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suspended Over Speech

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 118 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Mayor Suspends Jails Chaplain for 2 Weeks'' (news article, March 15):

It is heartening to see Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg standing up for the First
Amendment against attacks from the left and the right and telling us, ''We must
never be afraid of free speech.''

If only he had held these views in March 2003 after the commencement of the war
in Iraq or during the Republican National Convention. Then maybe his
administration would not have shunted antiwar demonstrations to side streets out
of view of President Bush and convention delegates, engaged in wholesale arrests
of lawful demonstrators, or infiltrated antiwar organizations with undercover
cops.

Jack Hassid
New York, March 15, 2006

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             351 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words


Because of an editing error, a front-page article on March 20 about the Bush
administration's defense of its Iraq strategy misstated the magnitude of antiwar
protests held in cities around the country on the weekend of March 18-19, the
third anniversary of the American-led invasion. They were not all relatively
small: while some 7,000 people demonstrated in Chicago on March 18 and smaller
protests were held in other cities, a larger demonstration took place in
Portland, Ore., on March 19, and organizers estimated that at least 10,000
people took part.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             352 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Rice Finds British Muslims Want to Give Her an Earful

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE SECRETARY; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: BLACKBURN, England, April 1


Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice faced more protests and public embarrassment
here on Saturday that have turned a trip meant to be a friendly follow-up to an
American trip by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw into a two-day run through a
raucous, mishap-ridden gantlet.

She was heckled by protesters and faced criticism from Muslim leaders
hand-selected to meet with her by the Foreign Office during a visit here, the
hometown of Mr. Straw. He visited Ms. Rice's hometown, Birmingham, Ala., in
October.

About 250 protesters ringing Blackburn's City Hall shouted ''Shame on you'' as
the two arrived. Through the din, Ms. Rice looked off into the distance and
spotted a handful of people, many holding shopping bags, who had stopped to
gawk.

She pointed them out to Mr. Straw, and the two of them waved enthusiastically.
Later, Mr. Straw said this gathering of ''people who agree with the visit'' was
''at least as large as the protesters.''

In a news conference, Ms. Rice said she was ''enjoying this visit very much.''
She described the meeting with the Muslim leaders as ''immensely stimulating and
interesting.''

Although the names of the 21 Muslim leaders had been made public, several of
them requested that their names not be published or broadcast, for fear of
repercussions. Five who agreed to be interviewed clearly feared they might be
viewed as traitors.

''We are here to represent the views of the thousands of protesters out there,''
said Kamrudden Kotha, the leader of a business federation. ''We talked to them
about the perceived double standard of American foreign policy. But I am not
naive enough to think we will change American foreign policy.''

Whenever asked, Mr. Straw said the protesters were a small minority, and he even
belittled them, saying at one point that he ''could have done better'' during
his youthful days as a peace advocate. He added, ''I can't say I am embarrassed
in the least'' by the reception his hometown gave to Ms. Rice. ''If you did an
opinion poll, you'd find that the vast majority of people in Blackburn agree
with this trip.''

On Friday, Ms. Rice had to content herself with a visit to the Liverpool school
where Paul McCartney studied instead of meeting him -- and had to face a short
line of students wearing T-shirts that said: ''No torture. No compromise.''
During a visit to a school in Blackburn, she was greeted with chants of ''Condi
Rice go home!''

Mr. Straw had advised Ms. Rice that she would probably be greeted by protesters
on the trip, officials said, and she told him that such confrontations would not
bother her. She gave several interviews to the British press, and almost every
one was dominated by questions about her rough reception.

''People can say whatever they wish,'' she told The Lancashire Evening
Telegraph. ''I know where I stand. We made the right decision'' in Iraq. ''I was
fully supportive of the decision.''

During the news conference in Blackburn on Saturday, the boos and jeers rose to
greet the secretaries as they spoke. Referring to the protesters at one point,
Ms. Rice said, ''They make my point. A democracy is the only system of
government that allows people to be heard peacefully.''

In front of City Hall a little earlier, Mayor Yusef Janvirmani, a native of
Uganda, stood on the steps, resplendent in his ceremonial red robes, the heavy
gold mayor's medallion suspended from his neck. He seemed unsure what to do as
he prepared to welcome Blackburn's most prominent foreign visitor in decades. He
decided to shake hands with the protesters behind the barricades as if he were
working a rope line. ''I'm delighted they are here,'' he told reporters. ''I am
against the war and will tell her that.''

''But,'' he added, ''having the secretary of state here is good for the
economy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2006



CORRECTION: Because of editing errors, articles on Saturday and Sunday about
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's visit to England misstated Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw's relationship to Blackburn, England. It is a town in the
district he represents, not his hometown.

Because of editing errors, articles on Saturday and Sunday about Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice's visit to England misstated Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw's relationship to Blackburn, England. It is a town in the district he
represents, not his hometown.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             353 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

With 'Grannies' in the Dock, A Sitting Judge Will Squirm

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 903 words


Imagine having grandmotherhood on trial in your courtroom. This is the awkward
situation in which Judge Neil Ross finds himself in Manhattan Criminal Court.

The defendants are 18 women who call themselves grannies -- somewhat loosely,
since although all of them are old enough, a few of them do not actually have
grandchildren. They are on trial for, as Judge Ross put it in a casual aside,
''protesting,'' and more specifically, protesting the war in Iraq, by sitting
outside the Times Square military recruiting center last October.

But the defense is trying to portray the trial as a referendum on
grandmotherhood itself, and they are milking that all-American concept to the
hilt, almost as deftly as the defense in ''Miracle on 34th Street,'' the 1947
feel-good chestnut, milked the American belief in Santa Claus.

The prosecution's case consisted of testimony from police officers about how the
women blocked the door of the recruiting center, impeding entry for anyone who
wanted to sign up, although the evidence suggests that the only people who
wanted to enlist on the afternoon of Oct. 17, 2005, were the women themselves,
who said they wanted to give their lives for those of younger soldiers. But they
were not allowed in.

The defense, which began on Monday, has consisted of putting the 18 women on the
witness stand, one after the other, to explain just what they thought they were
doing that day in Times Square. Their lawyers, Earl Ward and Norman Siegel,
former director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, have carefully asked a
series of questions intended to elicit what Mr. Ward called the credentials of
each defendant.

Mainly, these credentials consist of the women's ages and the number of children
and grandchildren they have. Only one, Vinie Burrows Harrison, an actress, took
the Fifth on the question of her age.

Carol Husten's reply was, ''Seventy-four. Two kids.''

Judy Lear's was 62, with ''three adult children and two granddaughters.''

Diane Dreyfus answered ''Fifty-nine and three-quarters,'' with ''one stepchild,
no grandchildren.''

And so forth, up to Marie Runyon, who is 91, with one daughter, two
grandchildren.

But even without the cold hard numbers, the granny-ness of these defendants is
hard to miss. These are not resort grannies, with dyed hair and manicures. For
the most part, they have let their hair go gracefully, defiantly gray. Some
carry canes; others use walkers. Ms. Runyon, whom the judge allows to sit next
to the witness box so she can hear, wields the white cane of the blind.

They are also women of accomplishment. Ms. Husten testified that she had a
master's degree in guidance, plus 60 credits, from Hofstra, and had worked as a
guidance counselor ''for truant and dropout children'' at James Madison High
School in Brooklyn.

''I was very, very rarely a truant, Ms. Husten,'' Judge Ross interjected. Then
he added sheepishly, his face reddening: ''For the record, I was not a student
at James Madison High School.''

Lillian Rydell, 86, testified that she graduated from high school in 1936, and
that instead of college, ''went to the school of hard knocks,'' to which Judge
Ross observed: ''I see that your education in that school is ongoing?''

Judge Ross has frequently looked mortified, squirming in his seat as if
wondering how in the world he, of all judges, had the bad luck to be chosen to
rule on the grannies' fate.

Like the unfortunate Judge Harper in ''Miracle on 34th Street,'' Judge Ross
clearly recognizes that ruling against grandmothers -- like ruling against Kris
Kringle -- could be political suicide, or at the very least make him a villain
to grandchildren everywhere.

The prosecution is represented by two fresh-faced assistant district attorneys,
Amy Miller and Artie McConnell, who, unlike the grannies, declined to give their
ages. They have been taking cues from a supervisor in the front row.

To the prosecution, this is a case of disorderly conduct. To the defendants, it
is a test of the constitutional right to free speech, and the morality of war.
One of them, Joan Wile, testified yesterday that her group had even had a
demonstration permit, although she had not noticed, until Mr. McConnell pointed
it out, that the permit was for Duffy Square, two blocks north.

In the end, it may come down to more prosaic questions, like whether the
grannies were inches or feet from the recruitment center door.

Isn't it true they were blocking traffic? Ms. Miller asked, cross-examining Ms.
Lear. Ms. Lear replied that if someone had wanted to go through, she would have
moved over. ''I'm a very polite person,'' she said.

''I'm sure you are,'' Ms. Miller agreed.

Wasn't their real objective to get publicity by being arrested? ''Did you
personally believe you were going to be allowed to enlist?'' Mr. McConnell asked
Ms. Dreyfus.

''I wasn't sure,'' she replied. ''I do have a skill set.'' She is a facilities
manager and ''could be used to deploy equipment,'' she said.

But, the prosecutor insisted, was she prepared to go to war?

''Yes,'' Ms. Dreyfus replied. ''I was totally prepared. I had just recently
gotten divorced. I was ready.''

The grannies burst out laughing, and a red blush spread, once more, over Judge
Ross's face.

''The defense rests,'' Mr. Siegel said yesterday after the last defendant
testified, and the grannies seemed to collectively sigh. The judge has promised
to rule today.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ''Granny Peace Brigade,'' on trial for a demonstration at
the Times Square military recruitment center, on the way back to court yesterday
after a lunch break. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Marie Runyon, left, and Diane Dreyfus are two of the ''grannies'' being tried
on two counts of disorderly conduct for their antiwar protest. (Photo by
Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             354 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Producing More. Earning More. Spending More.

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 950 words


MASSES of illegal immigrants took a day off on Monday to demonstrate their
contribution to the American economy. The nationwide protest closed some
businesses, but did not succeed in significantly slowing the economy, as some
organizers had hoped. But then, as the latest batch of statistics suggest,
nothing seems to be slowing the economy.

MIXED SIGNALS -- American workers' productivity -- a ratio of output to hours
worked -- resumed its climb in the first three months of the year, increasing by
a robust 3.2 percent. But, unusual in recent times, workers got more than the
full benefit of their productivity, as hourly wages rose at an annual rate of
5.8 percent -- or 3.2 percent after adjusting for inflation.

The Labor Department reported that unemployment claims rose last week, but only
modestly. There were 2.5 million claims outstanding as of April 22, about 5.5
percent fewer than a year ago, although another report showed that employers
created a net 138,000 new jobs last month, fewer than the 150,000 needed to keep
pace with population growth and far fewer than the 185,000 monthly average in
the first quarter. The unemployment rate was steady at 4.7 percent.

Those signals from the job market fanned concerns that inflation may accelerate
soon, leading the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates further to slow it.
For now, however, inflation is slow. Consumer prices excluding food and energy
rose at a 2 percent rate in March, the Commerce Department said. That was up
from 1.8 percent from the month before, but still tame by historical standards.
Including food and energy, prices rose at a 2.9 percent rate, the same pace as
in February.

The Fed's rate-setting policy makers will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday to
discuss whether to raise short-term interest rates. Many traders expect a
quarter-point increase.

EARN AND SPEND -- If consumers were worried about higher interest rates, or even
stubbornly high gasoline prices, it was difficult to detect it at the nation's
shopping centers.

Retailers, paced by Kohl's (up 13.4 percent) and Target (up 10.4 percent),
reported their best monthly sales results in two years. Results for stores open
at least a year rose an unusually high 6.6 percent, compared with the period a
year ago.

The biggest gains were at stores focused on teenagers, including American Eagle
Outfitters (up 19 percent) and Abercrombie & Fitch (up 17 percent). Sales at
Gap, by contrast, fell 3 percent. Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest
retailer, said its sales rose 6.8 percent.

The International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group, predicted a far
less rosy picture for this month, as high gasoline prices are expected to damp
spending in stores.

GAS PAINS -- Energy costs have already crimped sales in one area: autos.

General Motors, Ford and Chrysler all reported declines in April. G.M. and Ford
were each down 7 percent compared with April last year. The Chrysler division of
DaimlerChrysler reported an 8 percent decline.

Carmakers with a variety of economical smaller cars, meanwhile, said their sales
rose -- nearly 9 percent for Toyota and 7 percent for Honda.

Paradoxically, a bright spot for G.M. was its lines of new S.U.V.'s. Sales of
its Yukon and Tahoe models rose more than 30 percent last month, while the
Cadillac Escalade S.U.V. jumped by 127 percent.

G.M. will face stiffer competition in coming months as Ford and Chrysler begin
to sell updated models of their S.U.V.'s as well, analysts said.

LABOR PAINS -- Almost before G.M. could enjoy the small bit of good news about
its S.U.V. sales, it received a troubling message from the United Automobile
Workers. That labor union asked its 24,000 members working at Delphi, G.M.'s
biggest parts supplier, to authorize a strike. A walkout at Delphi could force
G.M. to file for bankruptcy protection, analysts say.

Union leaders sought the strike vote less than a week before Delphi, which is
operating under bankruptcy court protection, was scheduled to ask a bankruptcy
judge to let it close 21 of its 29 factories in the United States, eliminate
20,000 of its 34,000 hourly jobs and unilaterally impose sharply lower wage and
benefit rates on the remaining workers.

U.A.W. members are scheduled to vote on the strike before May 14. Delphi's court
date is May 9.

SURE BETS -- If anyone had a rougher week than the people at Delphi, it might
have been the people at Comverse Technology, a telecommunications software
company in New York.

The week began with the unexpected resignations of its founder, Kobi Alexander,
and two other top executives. A few days later, the other shoe dropped: Comverse
disclosed that it had received a subpoena from the United States attorney's
office in Brooklyn seeking information on how the company decided when to grant
stock options to its senior officers.

Comverse had recently come under scrutiny for the remarkably lucky timing of its
executives, who regularly received large stock option grants just before the
company's stock began to rise. The coincidence supercharged the value of those
options; investigators are now looking into whether the grants were illegally
backdated to guarantee that extra pop.

More subpoenas may be coming because other companies have stepped forward to say
that their stock-option programs have also come under federal scrutiny.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on
nytimes.com from April 29 through May 5:
1. New Microsoft Browser Raises Google's Hackles
2. How a Hit Almost Failed Its Own Audition
3. Microsoft and Google Set to Wage Arms Race
4. Doctors Object to Gathering of Drug Data
5. Rich in Features Yet Sleek in Hand
Links are at nytimes.com/business.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Retailers this week reported their best monthly sales results in
two years. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             355 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 12, 2006 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Time and a Place

BYLINE: By Karen Spears Zacharias.

Karen Spears Zacharias is the author of ''After the Flag Has Been Folded,'' a
memoir.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: Hermiston, Ore.


THE woman sitting across from me at a Chili's restaurant in Jacksonville, Fla.,
did not look old enough to be a widow. Twenty-seven years old, she had the
just-cut bangs of a schoolgirl, a tattoo on her forearm and a trendy round purse
at her side. How, she asked, would she tell her daughter, still a toddler, that
her father had died in Iraq?

For the last few months, she told me, she has been replaying the moments of her
husband's life, and his death. Antiwar protesters turned out at the funeral, the
woman said. They lined the streets across from the service. Some carried signs
and others shouted as her husband's flag-draped coffin was carried past.

The strange thing is that her husband, like many servicemen and women answering
their country's call, did not support the Iraq war. That soldiers serve, and too
often die, on the battlefield is a testament to their professionalism and
character -- virtues apparently lacking in the hundreds of antiwar protesters
who appear at military hospitals and funerals, and at services like the one I
attended at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington on Memorial Day.

During that ceremony, I looked up from my folding chair and saw a man on the
sidewalk above the memorial wall's Panel 9 East, on which my father's name is
etched. The man carried a sign calling for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq,
and he was engaged in a debate with a couple of Vietnam veterans. Their
bickering distracted me from the ceremony I had traveled 2,800 miles to attend.
So I walked up to where they stood.

To the sign-holder, I said, I respect your right to protest; I even applaud your
position on this war. But this is not the place. Not one of the people named on
the wall voted to go to war.

The man lifted his sign higher and said he was a veteran who had lost many
friends to the war. You're not respecting my feelings, he argued.

I turned and asked the other veterans present not to debate him. They nodded,
expressed sympathy for my family's loss and walked away. The protester lowered
his sign but stood his ground throughout the ceremony.

Earlier that day, spurred by noisy demonstrations by a group that claims the
deaths in Iraq are God's punishment for America's tolerance of homosexuality,
President Bush signed into law a ban on protests near national cemeteries during
funerals. Violators face a fine of up to a $100,000 and as much as a year in
prison.

But this law and others like it passed by states do not solve the whole problem;
they do not keep protestors away from military hospitals or sites like the
Vietnam memorial.

As a daughter of the fallen and a friend to families of today's casualties, I
implore antiwar protesters to show some respect. March to the steps of Congress
and the White House. Shout your protests at the president who drummed up this
war. But grant some peace to the men and women trying to heal in our military
hospitals, and the families grieving at funerals and memorials. Haven't we
earned a moment of silence?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 17, 2006



CORRECTION: An Op-Ed article on Monday, about demonstrations at military
funerals, hospitals and memorial services, incorrectly described the protesters
at the military funerals discussed in the article. In some cases, the protesters
were members of an anti-gay group, not people opposed to the Iraq war; in
others, the families of the dead service members were unable to determine the
affiliation of the protesters.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             356 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rally in France For Exiled Foe Of Iran's Rulers

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: LE BOURGET, France, July 1


Thousands of Iranians from across Europe gathered here today in support of the
National Council of Resistance of Iran and its leader, Maryam Rajavi, who was
recently freed from French judicial restrictions that limited her movement.

Ms. Rajavi's message to the assembled crowd of 10,000 or more was that Iran
needed neither nuclear weapons nor nuclear power but secular democracy,
presumably led by Ms. Rajavi herself -- or her husband, Massoud Rajavi, who is
now presumed to be in hiding in Iraq.

But the meeting's deeper message was that the Rajavi organization is still alive
and biding its time.

The National Council, which Ms. Rajavi heads, has been declared a terrorist
organization by the United States because of the violent tactics of its military
arm. Washington and and the European Union have made the same declaration about
the council's dominant military arm, the Mujahedeen Khalq, or People's Holy
Warriors.

Its militia in Iraq has been disarmed and confined to a camp north of Baghdad
since May 2003. Ms. Rajavi's freedom to travel was restricted after a raid that
July on the group's headquarters near Paris.

The organization has been lobbying to have the terrorist label removed and to be
taken seriously as a viable opposition movement to topple the theocracy in Iran.

Despite those problems, Ms. Rajavi has built a loyal following among
middle-class Iranians immigrants across Europe, primarily through an online
network of Iranian women.

More women than men support Ms. Rajavi ''because of the misogynist character of
the Iranian regime,'' one woman said.

Most of the women were dressed in typical European summer fashions, in contrast
to Ms. Rajavi's signature headscarf and matching suit, bright green on this
occasion.

They arrived for the weekend-long event by bus from as far north as Norway and
as far south as Italy. Many people came free or for nominal sums, their travel
subsidized by local donations. ''They are the only organization that can bring
freedom to Iran,'' said Sofie Soroori, 38, who came to the rally from Sweden.

She dismissed talk of the organization's dark side, blaming the mullahs in Iran
for misinformation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             357 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shiite Rally in Sadr City Draws Tens of Thousands to Show Support for Hezbollah

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Reporting for this article was contributed by James
Glanz, Wisam A. Habeeb, Abdul Razzaq al-Saiedi and Khalid W. Hassan from
Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Mosul and Kirkuk.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; HOSTILITIES IN THE MIDEAST: BAGHDAD;
Pg. 7

LENGTH: 878 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Saturday, Aug. 5


Tens of thousands of followers of the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr rallied in
support of the Lebanese militia Hezbollah on Friday, denouncing Israel and the
United States for igniting violence throughout the Middle East.

The protest, the largest of several demonstrations in Iraq since the
Israeli-Lebanese conflict began more than three weeks ago, filled 20 blocks of a
wide, squalid boulevard and dozens of side streets in the Shiite-dominated Sadr
City section of the capital.

All but a handful of the demonstrators were men, mostly young, wearing white
cloth to symbolize funeral shrouds. Some carried guns. Waving Lebanese flags and
posters of Hezbollah's leader, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, they shook their fists
and shouted in unison against what they described as the enemies of all Muslims.

''Hezbollah, beloved! Hit Tel Aviv! Hit Tel Aviv!'' the protesters said. ''No,
no, no, Israel! No, no, no, America!'' they chanted. And, finally, ''If
Americans are strong enough, they should come face us!''

The United States and Iraq's new Shiite-led government have been at odds over
the Israeli-Lebanese conflict since it started. Hezbollah, a Shiite group with
ties to Iran, inspires widespread support here among Shiites. At the protest,
barefoot boys in camouflage T-shirts scampered after men handing out posters of
Sheik Nasrallah, grabbing at them as if they were candy.

Mr. Sadr's organization claimed that a million people had attended; the United
States military said it had counted 14,000.

In an effort to tap into Hezbollah's widening ring of support, Mr. Sadr's
deputies sought repeatedly to conflate the Sadr-led uprising against Americans
in Najaf two years ago with Hezbollah's current fight against Israel.

''This month is the anniversary of the Mahdi victories in Najaf and other
provinces,'' Hazem al-Aaraji, Mr. Sadr's deputy, said in a speech to the crowd,
referring to the Mahdi Army, Mr. Sadr's militia. ''This month begins the sewing
of a new robe of resistance in Lebanon.''

The peaceful, highly organized show of force by Mr. Sadr -- who called for the
rally earlier this week -- started near a mosque after Friday Prayer, when
Muslims typically gather in large numbers. It came at a time of growing tensions
between the American military and his organization. On Thursday, American troops
killed at least two occupants of a vehicle carrying armed Shiites to Baghdad for
the rally.

American and Iraqi forces have also recently conducted a series of raids on
bases of the Mahdi Army and have arrested high-ranking militia leaders.

Several members of Mr. Sadr's bloc in Parliament said in interviews that the
militia did not deserve to be blamed for the rising number of reprisal killings
that have shaken Iraq in recent months.

''These are false accusations made against Sadr and the Mahdi organization,''
Falah Hassan Shanshal, a member of Parliament who serves as Mr. Sadr's
spokesman, said at the rally. Moments later the deep thud of a bomb sounded in
the distance.

''You see,'' he said. ''This is the violence. This is the terror. It's all being
done by Baathists and Takfiris,'' Mr. Shanshal said, referring to extremist
Sunni groups. ''We are here struggling and challenging the terrorism unarmed, in
clothes of peace.''

Unfazed by the blast, he turned away after a few seconds to greet his
constituents.

An Interior Ministry official said later that the explosion had been a mortar
round that struck the edge of Sadr City, near a mosque. No one was hurt, he
said.

A few hours later, three people returning home from the rally were killed and
four others were wounded when gunmen opened fire in the largely Sunni Dawra
district of the city, the official said.

The United States military said that at least three suspected militants were
killed in raids and an airstrike south of Baghdad on Thursday afternoon.
Elsewhere in the country, fighting continued to rage. In Mosul, a series of car
bombs aimed at Iraqi policemen killed a battalion commander and several other
officers hours after Iraqi forces arrested 27 suspected insurgents, according to
a statement from the Iraqi Army. Gun battles after the bombing between police
officers and insurgents prompted officials to impose a curfew until 1 p.m. on
Saturday, police officials said.

In Baquba, north of Baghdad, American troops wounded one person and arrested
eight others in a series of raids, according to an official statement.

In Ubaydi, a town in Anbar Province on the Syrian border that American marines
swept last year, three Iraqi civilians were killed and nine more were wounded
when a mortar round hit a family's home, a statement from the American military
said.

Also in Anbar, two American soldiers from the First Armored Division died as a
result of ''enemy action'' on Friday. Another American -- a member of the First
Marine Expeditionary Force -- died early Saturday morning from nonhostile action
in Anbar, bringing the total number of soldiers killed in August to at least
nine, the military said.

Two days earlier, the top American Marine commander, Maj. Gen. Richard C.
Zilmer, said violence in western Iraq was increasing.

''Right now, much like all of Iraq, the attack levels are up,'' General Zilmer
told The Associated Press.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shiite supporters of the cleric Moktada al-Sadr said a million
people attended yesterday's rally to support Hezbollah and denounce Israel
 the United States military counted 14,000. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for
The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             358 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rally Near White House Protests Violence in Mideast

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 12


Thousands of people rallied near the White House on Saturday to protest what
they described as Israeli aggression in Lebanon and the United States'
unwavering support for Israel.

The diverse crowd included many Arab-Americans and Muslims, college students and
families, as well as veterans of prior demonstrations against the war in Iraq.

''We want to know why our tax money is going to support war crimes,'' said
Mounzer Sleiman, vice chairman of the National Council of Arab-Americans, one of
more than 15 speakers who addressed the protesters gathered in Lafayette Park,
across from the White House, under a cloudless sky.

The crowd erupted periodically in chants, ''Israel out of Lebanon now'' and
''Free, free Palestine.''

Dr. Khalil A. Katato of West Bloomfield, Mich., an oncologist who came to
Washington by bus with his wife and five children, said, ''We are protesting
U.S. support of Israeli aggression on the Palestinian and Lebanese people.''

His wife, Daad Katato, said she made the trip to protest the war in Iraq, and to
show sympathy for children killed or injured during Israel's military operations
in Lebanon and the Gaza Strip.

The criticism of Israel at Saturday's rally contrasted with the sentiment in
Congress, where support for Israel is overwhelming and bipartisan. By a vote of
410 to 8, the House last month expressed ''strong support'' for Israel and
condemned Hezbollah and Hamas for armed attacks on Israeli territory. The Senate
approved a similar resolution by voice vote.

President Bush was at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., winding up a 10-day vacation.
He was due back at the White House on Sunday.

At the rally on Saturday, the prevailing sentiments were expressed in signs held
aloft by marchers: ''Occupation is a crime -- Iraq, Lebanon, Palestine.'' ''Stop
Israeli terrorism.'' ''No justice, no peace.''

Brian Becker, national coordinator of a coalition called Act Now to Stop War and
End Racism, a sponsor of the rally, asserted that President Bush had given
Israel a green light to crush Hezbollah in Lebanon, then ''sent cluster bombs to
the Israeli Defense Forces to kill Lebanese children.'' Israel has asked the
Bush administration to speed delivery of rockets armed with cluster munitions,
which could be used to strike Hezbollah missile sites in Lebanon, and a senior
American official said this week that the request was likely to be approved.

Several speakers at the rally criticized Mr. Bush for mentioning the religious
background of those arrested this week in a plot to blow up airplanes flying
from Britain to the United States. Mr. Bush said the plot showed that ''this
nation is at war with Islamic fascists who will use any means to destroy those
of us who love freedom, to hurt our nation.''

Mahdi Bray, executive director of the Muslim American Society Freedom
Foundation, said Mr. Bush owed Muslims an apology. ''There is no Islamic
fascism,'' Mr. Bray said. ''There is no doctrine of fascism in Islam.''

Esam Omesh, president of the Muslim American Society, said, ''We all stand
united against the violence and the killing in the holy land.''

Ramsey Clark, the former attorney general, drew cheers when he said, ''We have a
solemn obligation to impeach President Bush.'' Mr. Clark, who has served on the
defense team for Saddam Hussein, the former president of Iraq, also advocated
the impeachment of Vice President Dick Cheney and Defense Secretary Donald H.
Rumsfeld.

Two students from George Mason University in Fairfax, Va. -- Ali Khan, 28, a
Pakistani-American, and his wife, Afnan Khan, 22, who was born in the United
States to Iraqi parents -- were less strident. They said they were protesting
the death of civilians, especially Lebanese children.

''They are all innocent,'' Mr. Khan said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Imam Syed Naqvi of the Islamic Information Center led prayers
yesterday in Lafayette Park in Washington. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New
York Times)
 Others rallied yesterday, including a San Francisco face-off over Israel.
(Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             359 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Bush, Subdued Trip to Family Home

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me., Aug. 26


In summers past, President Bush had his filial pride on full display during
trips to the family compound here, dutifully escorting his father to the golf
course for early morning rounds and bantering about competitive sports.

But in his first visit to the southern Maine coast in two years, Mr. Bush kept a
more distant profile for most of this weekend.

Rather than making a highly visible trip to the golf club where his family has
played for decades, Mr. Bush went cycling in the woods on Saturday with three
men from the local bike rental shop. He skipped a memorial service for his
great-aunt on Friday. He was spotted boating with his father -- but only by
persistent photographers who chartered their own ride out to sea. And on
Saturday, his father took the boat out without him.

Whether they reflect a conscious decision by the president to play down his
vacation time, a sign of shifting family dynamics or simply evidence that his
recreational tastes have changed, Mr. Bush's choices did little to dispel the
perception that he prefers his dusty Texas ranch over the rocky enclave of the
Walker clan.

On Saturday, the usual summer tourists who meander the streets of this quaint
seaside town were joined by hundreds of protesters, the first sizable antiwar
demonstration Mr. Bush has faced in Kennebunkport. Demonstrators marched down
the winding two-lane Ocean Avenue, which leads to Walker's Point, pounding
drums, clogging the highway and chanting: ''Stop the bloodshed, stop the war!
Bring our troops home now!''

The banner headline in The Portland Press Herald, over a photograph of Mr. Bush
aboard the family boat, Fidelity III, read, ''Bush plays as protests loom.''

While the reason for this trip was the wedding of a distant cousin -- Walker
Stapleton, to Jennifer Bertocchi -- advisers did not volunteer much in the way
of details about the family's activities, and the president attended only the
wedding service at St. Ann's Episcopal Church on Saturday afternoon, not the
reception. With the approach of the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina,
Mr. Bush's only public comments came in the form of his weekly radio address, in
which he promised that the federal government would stay in the Gulf region
''until the job is done.''

Mr. Bush was receiving his regular briefings, aides said, as well as updates on
Tropical Storm Ernesto, which was gaining strength in the Caribbean. Apart from
that, there were few details about how he was spending the rest of the weekend.
There was no mention of the famous Bush family horseshoes tournament, which the
president once vowed to dominate.

''The family spent time catching up with one another, and they enjoyed the great
outdoors that Maine has to offer,'' Dana M. Perino, a White House spokeswoman,
said.

Mr. Bush had some catching up to do not only with his own family but also with
the number of visits former President Bill Clinton has made here. The Democrat,
who has recently developed a close relationship with the older Mr. Bush, has
visited Kennebunkport twice since the president was here last.

Mr. Bush's more subdued approach this time is in keeping with his effort this
August to avoid the criticism that followed his summer vacation last year, when
he was accused of being slow to respond to Hurricane Katrina.

In 2003, Mr. Bush spent Father's Day at Walker's Point, golfing and fishing with
his father over a long weekend. In 2002, Mr. Bush visited his parents three
times, including an early autumn trip as he traveled through New England raising
money for Republican candidates.

And in 2001, his first year in office, Mr. Bush celebrated his birthday at the
oceanfront compound, showing off the ''43'' baseball cap his father had given
him as a present (to match the former president's ''41'' hat). All three years,
the president talked expansively about world affairs, sometimes in his father's
presence.

Mr. Bush last visited Walker's Point at the height of the 2004 campaign, flying
in for a September weekend that included a campaign stop in the more
conservative upstate region (he lost the state nonetheless). Mr. Bush also
traveled here that August for his nephew's wedding. George P. Bush, the son of
the president's brother Jeb, was married at the same stone church where this
weekend's wedding took place; the president skipped that reception as well.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protest followed President Bush to Kennebunkport, Me., yesterday
as demonstrators marched against the Iraq war near his family home. (Photo by
Herb Swanson for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             360 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Detention Of Venezuelan At J.F.K. Airport Raises Tensions

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Warren Hoge and Thomas J. Lueck contributed reporting
from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 310 words

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Sept. 24


With political relations between the United States and Venezuela already very
tense, the brief detention of the Venezuelan foreign minister over the weekend
in New York worsened matters here on Sunday.

Demonstrators allied with President Hugo Chavez protested the treatment of
Nicolas Maduro, the foreign minister, who was detained Saturday for about an
hour at Kennedy International Airport while trying to fly home after the United
Nations General Assembly meeting in New York last week.

Ismael Garcia, secretary general of the pro-government party Podemos, told the
local news media that if Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had been subjected
to 20 percent of what Mr. Maduro went through, Venezuela would be under siege by
the United States Marines.

Even political opponents of Mr. Chavez criticized the detention of Mr. Maduro,
which drew a rare apology from the State Department.

A woman who answered a call to the Venezuelan Mission to the United Nations in
New York on Sunday said that Mr. Maduro had not yet left the United States. She
declined to say more, or to identify herself, because she said she was not
authorized to discuss the matter.

She provided the name of a spokeswoman for Mr. Maduro, who did not return
telephone requests for comment.

Stephane Dujarric, the spokesman for Secretary General Kofi Annan, said: ''We
have received from the Venezuelans a serious complaint. Our legal affairs office
is now in touch with the U.S. authorities and the Venezuelan authorities to try
to establish the facts of the case.''

A United Nations official who said he was not authorized to discuss the incident
for attribution said the organization had received a report that Mr. Maduro had
first come to the authorities' attention because he had arrived at the airport
less than an hour before the flight and had purchased his ticket with cash.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             361 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 6, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Air Time Instead of Funeral Protest

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 296 words


Mike Gallagher, a nationally syndicated talk-radio host, turned over 55 minutes
of his program yesterday morning to representatives from a fringe Christian
group in exchange for a written promise that its members would not picket the
funerals of the five Amish girls killed on Monday by a gunman inside their
Pennsylvania schoolhouse.

Some representatives of the group, the Westboro Baptist Church of Topeka, Kan.,
led by the Rev. Fred Phelps, have contended that the Amish community bears some
responsibility for the girls' deaths as a consequence of its religious
practices.

The group said it was also seeking to draw attention to its dispute with Gov.
Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, who signed legislation this year barring
pickets near funerals, a response to the church's efforts to protest near the
funerals of American soldiers killed in Iraq. The group said the military deaths
were a result of God's disappointment with ''the sins of America.''

''The Lord your God is ramping up the issues, is smiting this nation,'' Shirley
Phelps-Roper, a church representative and a daughter of Mr. Phelps, told
listeners of ''The Mike Gallagher Show,'' in reference to the shootings in
Lancaster County. ''What he did with one stroke on that day, sending a pervert
in -- because America is a nation of perverts -- it's appropriate he sent a
pervert in to shoot those children. The Amish people were laid to an open shame
because they are a false religion.''

In a telephone interview after the broadcast, Mr. Gallagher, whose program is
syndicated by the Salem Radio Network to nearly 200 stations and who is also an
on-camera contributor to Fox News, said that while he strongly disagreed with
the group, ''I've never been prouder of this radio show being able to do some
good.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             362 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Documents Reveal Scope of U.S. Database on Antiwar Protests

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


Internal military documents released Thursday provided new details about the
Defense Department's collection of information on demonstrations nationwide last
year by students, Quakers and others opposed to the Iraq war.

The documents, obtained by the American Civil Liberties Union under a Freedom of
Information Act lawsuit, show, for instance, that military officials labeled as
''potential terrorist activity'' events like a ''Stop the War Now'' rally in
Akron, Ohio, in March 2005.

The Defense Department acknowledged last year that its analysts had maintained
records on war protests in an internal database past the 90 days its guidelines
allowed, and even after it was determined there was no threat.

A department spokesman said Thursday that the ''questionable data collection''
had led to a tightening of military procedures to ensure that only information
relevant to terrorism and other threats was collected. The spokesman, Maj.
Patrick Ryder, said in response to the release of the documents that the
department ''views with great concern any potential violation'' of the policy.

''There is nothing more important or integral to the effectiveness of the U.S.
military than the trust and good will of the American people,'' Major Ryder
said.

A document first disclosed last December by NBC News showed that the military
had maintained a database, known as Talon, containing information about more
than 1,500 ''suspicious incidents'' around the country in 2004 and 2005. Dozens
of alerts on antiwar meetings and peaceful protests appear to have remained in
the database even after analysts had decided that they posed no threat to
military bases or personnel.

Some documents obtained by the A.C.L.U. referred to the potential for disruption
to military recruiting and the threat posed to military personnel as a result.

An internal report produced in May 2005, for instance, discussed antiwar
protests at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and was issued ''to
clarify why the Students for Peace and Justice represent a potential threat to
D.O.D. personnel.''

The memorandum noted that several hundred students had recently protested the
presence of military recruiters at a career fair and demanded that they leave.

''The clear purpose of these civil disobedience actions was to disrupt the
recruiting mission of the U.S. Army Recruiting Command by blocking the entrance
to the recruiting station and causing the stations to shut down early,'' it
said.

But the document also noted that ''to date, no reported incidents have occurred
at these protests.''

The documents indicated that intelligence reports and tips about antiwar
protests, including mundane details like the schedule for weekly planning
meetings, were widely shared among analysts from the military, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security.

''There is simply no reason why the United States military should be monitoring
the peaceful activities of American citizens who oppose U.S. war policies,''
said Ben Wizner, a lawyer for the A.C.L.U.

Joyce Miller, an official with the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker
group that learned that information on some of its antiwar protests was in the
military database, said she found the operation to be a ''chilling'' and
troubling trend.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             363 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 5, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Price of Climate Change

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; The Way We Live Now: Freakonomics; Pg.
26

LENGTH: 1214 words


The famous old quip about the weather -- everyone talks about it but nobody does
anything about it -- is not as true as it once was. Alarmed by the threat of
global warming, lots of people are actively trying to change human behaviors in
order to change the weather.

Even economists are getting into the weather business. Olivier Deschenes of the
University of California at Santa Barbara and Michael Greenstone of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology have written a pair of papers that assess
some effects of climate change. In the first, they use long-run climatological
models -- year-by-year temperature and precipitation predictions from 2070 to
2099 -- to examine the future of agriculture in the United States. Their
findings? The expected rises in temperature and precipitation would actually
increase annual agricultural production, and therefore agricultural profits, by
about 4 percent, or $1.3 billion. This hardly fulfills the doomsday fears
conjured by most conversations about global warming.

For other economists, meanwhile, the weather itself has proved useful in
measuring wholly unrelated human behaviors. From an economist's perspective, the
great thing about the weather is that there is nothing humans can do to affect
it (at least until recently).

Contrast this with social changes that people enact: a new set of laws, for
instance. Very often, new laws come about when there is a perception that a big
social problem -- think violent crime or corporate fraud -- is growing worse.
After a while, and after the laws have been enacted, the problem diminishes. So
did the new laws fix the problem, or would it have improved on its own?
Politicians will surely claim that it was their laws that fixed the problem, but
it's hard to know for sure.

The weather, however, is different; the beauty of weather is that it does its
own thing, and whether the weather is good or bad, you can be pretty sure that
it didn't come about in response to some human desire to fix a problem. Weather
is a pure shock to the system, which means that it is a valuable tool to help
economists make sense of the world.

Consider 19th-century Bavaria. The problem there was rain -- too much of it. As
Halvor Mehlum, Edward Miguel and Ragnar Torvik explained in a recent paper,
excessive rain damaged the rye crop by interfering with the planting and the
harvest. Using a historical rainfall database from the United Nations, they
found that the price of rye was significantly higher in rainy years, and since
rye was a major staple of the Bavarian diet, food prices across the board were
considerably higher in those years, too. This was a big problem, since a poor
family at the time would have been likely to spend as much as 80 percent of its
money on food. The economists went looking for other effects of this weather
shock. It turns out that Bavaria kept remarkably comprehensive crime statistics
-- the most meticulous in all of Germany -- and when laid out one atop the
other, there was a startlingly robust correlation between the amount of rain,
the price of rye and the rate of property crime: they rose and fell together in
lockstep. Rain raised food prices, and those prices, in turn, led hungry
families to steal in order to feed themselves.

But violent crime fell during the rainy years, at the same time property crimes
were on the rise. Why should that be? Because, the economists contend, rye was
also used to make beer. ''Ten percent of Bavarian household income went to beer
purchases alone,'' they write. So as a price spike in rye led to a price spike
in beer, there was less beer consumed -- which in turn led to fewer assaults and
murders.

It turns out that rainfall often has a surprisingly strong effect on violence.
In a paper on the economic aftermath of the hundreds of riots in American cities
during the 1960's, William Collins and Robert Margo used rainfall as a variable
to compare the cities where riots took place with cities where riots probably
would have taken place had it not rained. Few things can dampen a rioter's
spirit more than a soaking rain, they learned. After two days of rioting in
Miami in the summer of 1968 were finally quelled by rain, they write, the Dade
County sheriff joked to The New York Times that he had ordered his off-duty
officers to pray for more rain.

The economists Edward Miguel, Shanker Satyanath and Ernest Sergenti have written
a paper that uses rainfall to explore the issue of civil war in Africa.
Twenty-nine of 43 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, they note, experienced some
kind of civil war during the 1980's or 1990's. The causes of any war are of
course incredibly complex -- or are they? The economists discovered that one of
the most reliable predictors of civil war is lack of rain. Using monthly
rainfall data from many different African countries (most of which,
significantly, are largely agricultural), they found that a shortage of rain in
a given growing season led inevitably to a short-term economic decline and that
short-term economic declines led all too easily to civil war. The causal effect
of a drought, they argue, was frighteningly strong: ''a 5-percentage-point
negative growth shock'' -- a drop in the economy, that is -- ''increases the
likelihood of civil war the following year by nearly one-half.''

Since the weather yields such interesting findings about the past, it makes
sense that economists are also tempted to use it to anticipate the future. In
their second paper on the potential effects of global warming, Deschenes and
Greenstone try to predict mortality rates in the U.S. in the last quarter of the
current century.

Unlike in their paper on agriculture, the news in this one isn't good. They
estimate, using one of the latest (and most dire) climatological models, that
the predicted rise in temperature will increase the death rate for American men
by 1.7 percent (about 21,000 extra fatalities per year) and for American women
by 0.4 percent (about 8,000 deaths a year). Most of these excess deaths, they
write, will be caused by hot weather that worsens cardiovascular and respiratory
conditions. These deaths will translate into an economic loss of roughly $31
billion per year. Deschenes and Greenstone caution that their paper is in a
preliminary stage and hasn't yet been peer-reviewed and that the increased
mortality rate may well be offset by such simple (if costly) measures as
migration to the Northern states -- a repopulation that, even a decade ago,
might have seemed unimaginable.

Their paper on agriculture also has some wrinkles. While arguing that global
warming would produce a net agricultural gain in the United States, they specify
which states would be the big winners and which ones would be the big losers.
What's most intriguing is that winners' and losers' lists are a true blend of
red states and blue states: New York, along with Georgia and South Dakota, are
among the winners; Nebraska and North Carolina would lose out, but the biggest
loser of all would be California. Which suggests that in this most toxic of
election seasons, when there seems not a single issue that can unite blue and
red staters (or at least the politicians thereof), global warming could turn out
to be just the thing to bring us all together.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             364 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 3, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Homemade Memorial Is Stirring Passions on Iraq

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: LAFAYETTE, Calif., Nov. 30


The tranquil suburb of Lafayette hardly seems the most likely place in the Bay
Area for a battle over the First Amendment and the war in Iraq. Liberal Berkeley
is just over the hill, after all, and nearby San Francisco is always spoiling
for a fight.

But over the last few weeks, it is Lafayette -- an affluent bedroom community 20
miles east of downtown San Francisco -- that has become the scene of a
passionate debate over the place of political speech in suburbia.

At issue is a hillside memorial, made up of some 450 small white crosses and a
5-by-16-foot sign that reads: ''In Memory of 2,867 U.S. Troops Killed in Iraq.''
The memorial was created by Jeff Heaton, a building contractor and antiwar
activist, who said it was meant ''to get people involved on a local level'' and
talking about Iraq.

Sure enough, people here have become involved, including more than 200 people
and a half-dozen television news crews and reporters who crammed into the
usually sparsely attended City Council meeting last week to voice their opinions
about the memorial. And while many there said they found the crosses deeply
moving, others called the memorial unpatriotic, disrespectful or just plain
ugly.

That camp included Jean Bonadio, a former Marine sergeant who said she was so
offended that she stopped her car and climbed the hill to dismantle the sign,
which sits with the crosses on private property of a fellow advocate just north
of Highway 24, a major Bay Area thoroughfare, and the Lafayette light-rail
station.

''My first reaction was, 'What a disgrace to those who have sacrificed,' '' said
Ms. Bonadio, 53, a dog trainer. ''I had no tools with me, so I removed it with
my bare hands and feet.''

The sign was repaired, but Ms. Bonadio is not the only one trying to take down
the sign. Shortly after the memorial was erected, the city government called on
Mr. Heaton to remove the accompanying sign, citing a municipal code forbidding
anything larger than four square feet to be posted on private property.

That, however, prompted some supporters of the memorial to suggest that the city
was engaging in censorship, accusations Mayor Ivor Samson denied. ''The content
of the sign is not an issue,'' Mr. Samson said. ''If the sign was that size and
said 'I love my mom,' it would still be in violation.''

Mr. Samson also said that the memorial had drawn attention here precisely
because Lafayette, where the median cost of a home is over $1 million, was
traditionally apolitical. ''I think had this been in Berkeley or Santa Cruz, a
community with a greater history of political activism, this wouldn't be news,''
he said.

No action was taken at Monday's meeting, after the city's attorney said he
needed more time to study the issue. But Louise Clark, who owns the property the
memorial sits on, said that if the sign had to go, the meaning would be lost.

''If it's just crosses, it's a cemetery,'' said Ms. Clark, 81. ''It's not a
cemetery, nobody is buried there. It's a memorial.''

But some Lafayette residents question whether the memorial actually meant to
remember the dead troops. ''There's no American flag flying, it's just very
stark and shock value,'' said Lyn Zusman, 53, whose son is a marine just back
from Iraq. ''If you want to make it a memorial, you personalize it. But if it's
a protest, call it that. That's why we live in America, so we can spout our
views off.''

This is not the first time Mr. Heaton, a longtime Lafayette resident, has tried
to erect a memorial in his hometown. Three years ago, he tried to mount a
smaller display of crosses on the same hillside. The night after he planted
them, however, someone stole them. The next day, he planted the crosses again,
and the next night, they disappeared again.

But this time, Mr. Heaton says he feels that the mood about the war has shifted,
both nationwide and in Lafayette.

''There's been a real change in the tide of feeling about the war,'' said Mr.
Heaton, 53, who said the inspiration for the crosses came from a visit to the
Vietnam Memorial in Washington. ''It is much more acceptable now to question the
reasons for the war.''

He added that Lafayette would be a good place to make a statement because ''it
is pretty sleepy and conservative and not that much happens there.''

City officials in Lafayette also say their city has been slowly changing, with
an influx of former Berkeley and San Francisco residents looking for a place
with good public schools for their children. Lafayette, Mr. Samson said, now has
''people who are very interested in the larger world.''

The Lafayette crosses are not the only grass-roots remembrance around, or the
only one to stir controversy. Veterans for Peace, a nonprofit antiwar group
based in St. Louis, has regularly planted similar arrays of crosses on beaches
in Santa Monica and Santa Barbara. Since 2004, the American Friends Service
Committee, a Quaker group based in Philadelphia, has sponsored a traveling
exhibit called Eyes Wide Open, which features a pair of empty boots for every
American solider killed in Iraq.

Michael T. McPhearson, executive director of Veterans for Peace, which also has
fields of crosses planted in four other cities, admitted that the displays
sometimes provoked angry reactions. ''They say we're not supporting the troops,
and they say we shouldn't be doing these vigils,'' said Mr. McPhearson, 42, who
served in the first gulf war. ''But we feel that especially because we're
veterans and we've served, we have the right.''

Mr. Samson said he did not know when the city attorney would rule on whether the
sign in Lafayette had to go. In the meantime, however, Mr. Heaton and Ms. Clark
say they will continue to add crosses -- and update the numbers on the sign.

''It's overwhelming just looking at that small number, and that's nowhere near
the number of the ones we lost,'' said Ms. Clark, speaking of the dead in Iraq.
''When we get all those crosses up there, everybody will gasp.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Benton painting a wooden cross that is part of a hillside
memorial in Lafayette, Calif., to American service members killed in Iraq.
(Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             365 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2006 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Iraq Report: Where Do We Go From Here?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1312 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Panel Urges Basic Shift in U.S. Policy in Iraq'' (front page, Dec. 7):

Reading the 79 recommendations from the Iraq Study Group, I can't imagine
President Bush admitting his failures; bringing in controversial experts to help
him carry out its suggestions when he surrounds himself only with yes people;
and allowing diplomatic talks to take place with Iran and Syria.

The report shows the utter chaos in our interagency communications; the
frustration of the military generals; our abject failure of privatizing
reconstruction; the wasted money on building permanent bases; and the complete
lack of knowledge of the history in the Middle East.

And those are just a few of the problems!

What a rebuke to the Decider. All I can say is what a mess, and good luck.

Jacqueline Jones
Portland, Ore., Dec. 7, 2006

To the Editor:

Reading your article about the Iraq Study Group's report, I could only wonder:
Does it occur to anyone else how sad it is that there had to be a study on the
war in Iraq at all?

A competent president with advisers both military and civilian would have had a
grip on the situation, the mood of the country and the political ramifications
of our policy (or lack thereof) in Iraq and acted accordingly.

The president waited until after the election to bend ever so slightly away from
''staying the course,'' and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld's memo
admitting failure was secret until after his resignation.

Meanwhile, the committee investigating the Iraq war was taking care of business
while the president waited in the wings for guidance and answers.

The public saw the results of the study coming for a year or more; there is
nothing revealing or new in the report that hasn't been in the news or on the
lips of advisers for months.

We now have to wait and see if in the president's skewed view, this report is
more credible than all the professional input he has received over the last
three years.

What a waste of time, money and, sadly, more lives in Iraq.

Laure Dunne
Darien, Conn., Dec. 7, 2006

To the Editor:

While our country spends money and loses face by hiring an elite panel of
advisers to help us out of Iraq, let's also remember a different group of
advisers: the ''focus group'' of millions of Americans (and millions worldwide)
who took to the streets in 2002 and 2003 to protest invading in the first place.

Many of them, with none of this panel's expertise, had the common sense to
expect the very situation we're in now.

David Dartley
New York, Dec. 7, 2006

To the Editor:

Your front-page article says that rather than embracing President Bush's goal of
''victory in Iraq'' or ''the White House's early aspiration that Iraq might be
transformed into a democracy in the near future  the panel chose instead the
formulation that Mr. Bush has adopted most recently: to establish a country that
can sustain itself, govern itself and defend itself.''

Wasn't that precisely the situation that existed in Iraq before our invasion?

Warren Nadel
New York, Dec. 7, 2006

To the Editor:

Re ''Welcome Political Cover'' (editorial, Dec. 7):

Before The Times and the American people embrace the findings of the Iraq Study
Group, the following should be seriously considered:

The conclusions do not reflect the results of the Nov. 7 election, which clearly
gave our elected officials a mandate to get out of Iraq post-haste, nor do they
honor the wishes of the American people reflected in the polls, which sent the
same message.

The conclusions do not honor the wishes of the Iraqi people, who overwhelmingly
support the end of the ill-conceived occupation of their country.

The conclusions do not reflect the views of much of the leadership of the
Democratic Party, elected to the majority of both houses of Congress, which
called for a phased redeployment of American troops outside of Iraq within six
months.

While the media insist that the Iraq Study Group is nonpartisan (only to the
extent that it is composed of five Republicans and five Democrats), the group
did not pick up the mood of the country at all, nor did it adequately represent
us in a supposedly representative democracy.

Dennis Dalrymple
New York, Dec. 7, 2006

To the Editor:

Your Dec. 7 editorial concerning the Iraq Study Group's report is helpfully but
sadly put in perspective by your front-page news analysis the same day, ''Will
It Work in the White House?''

For it to work in the White House, President Bush must be able to admit, at
least to himself, that his policy in Iraq, if it can be called that, has not
worked and that the situation in Iraq is deteriorating. He must also be able to
accept the criticisms implicit in the report.

Nothing in his six years in office has shown him capable of such honest
introspection. The fact that the report does offer Mr. Bush a chance to gather a
bipartisan consensus for change is a compliment to the report.

But Mr. Bush, since being anointed president in 2000 by the Supreme Court and
very narrowly winning an election in 2004, has acted like an emperor with a
mandate to do as he sees fit.

To Mr. Bush, bipartisan means having the support of his friend Tony Blair.

Under the circumstances, the Iraq Study Group has delivered a decent and
bipartisan report. One fears that Mr. Bush is too far out of touch with reality
to use it to get the country out of the hole he has dug.

Theodore S. Voelker
Copake, N.Y., Dec. 7, 2006

To the Editor:

Your Dec. 7 front-page news analysis of the Iraq Study Group report describes
the report's nuanced ''shaping'' of the president's thinking. You quote James A.
Baker III, the group's co-chairman, as saying President Bush is ''conflicted''
about Iraq, and you write that Republicans are waiting for clues about what Mr.
Bush will do.

On the day the report was released, 10 more American troops were killed in Iraq.
The results of the November election left no doubt that the American people want
to end the deployment and deaths of our troops in Iraq.

Yet despite this clear message, our misguided foreign adventure continues to
hang on the vicissitudes of an overwhelmingly unpopular president.

The government was given a mandate to act. Whatever euphemisms it chooses to
use, we need a short-term timetable for removing our combat troops from Iraq.

Wendy Geringer
Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
Dec. 7, 2006

To the Editor:

The Iraq Study Group's call for diplomatic engagement of Iran and Syria is a
prudent recommendation that, if carried out by the Bush administration, will
probably contribute to Iraq's stability, as Iran is equally concerned about the
spiraling sectarian-insurgency conflict, which may spill over into the country.

In turn, such a dialogue may contribute to the resolution of the nuclear
standoff with Iran, by improving the climate between the two countries, all the
more reason for the Security Council to avoid hasty sanctions that could torpedo
the proposed United States-Iranian dialogue on security in Iraq and the region.


Kaveh Afrasiabi
Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 7, 2006

The writer is a former adviser to Iran's nuclear negotiation team.

To the Editor:

Re ''Bush Urges Shiite Leader to Support Premier'' (news article, Dec. 5):

The attitude of Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, a powerful Shiite leader in Iraq, toward
the policies of President Bush portends benefits for the Shiites in Iraq that
may well be harmful to our interests in the long run.

Our military is engaged in hostilities daily in Iraq with Shiites and Sunnis.
But most of our efforts are directed against the Sunnis. Attacks by Shiite
militiamen and our military activity are draining the power of the Sunnis, and
in effect we are taking sides and ensuring an eventual Shiite victory in a civil
war. Negotiations with Saudi Arabia on this matter are imperative.

Connell J. Maguire
Riviera Beach, Fla., Dec. 5, 2006

The writer is a retired Navy captain.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Hoppe)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             366 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 11, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Crowd Demands Change, Lebanese Premier Is Puzzled

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nada Bakri contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Dec. 10


The center of Beirut was packed Sunday with hundreds of thousands of
pro-Hezbollah and allied demonstrators who, in a jubilant mass of protest and
carnival, pressed their call for the government to resign.

The pounding of martial music and the roaring din of the excited crowd floated
up a nearby hill to pierce the thick walls of the stately government building,
the Grand Serail, as the prime minister, Fouad Siniora, entered a ceremonial
room for a news conference. ''I don't understand what is this great cause that
is making them create this tense political mess and stage open-ended
demonstrations,'' he said to a small group of reporters.

Over and over, the crowd, the speakers and the posters offered clear
explanations. They did not want a government controlled by the so-called March
14 coalition, an amalgam of Sunni, Christian and Druse parties. They did not
want a government aligned with Washington. In short, a very large number of
Lebanese citizens said they did not want the present leadership.

A banner hung down the side of a building, showing a picture of the prime
minister hugging Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. ''Thanks Condy,'' it said,
just beneath an image of dead children, referring to Lebanese civilian
casualties during Israel's war with Hezbollah in the summer.

''There is no longer a place for America in Lebanon,'' Hezbollah's deputy
leader, Sheik Naim Qassem, said in remarks that boomed through loudspeakers.

''Do you not recall that the weapons fired on Lebanon were American weapons?''
he added.

Prime Minister Siniora's somewhat surprising expression of bewilderment seemed
to capture the spirit dividing this country of just four million people. There
are government supporters who appear afraid and threatened, and there are
opponents of the government, particularly those who support Hezbollah, who seem
empowered and confident that they stand at the threshold of victory.

In a subdued ceremony that seemed a reverse image of the boisterous protests,
several thousand people gathered to mark the anniversary of the assassination of
Gibran Tueni, the anti-Syrian newspaper publisher killed in a car bombing last
year. The front of the convention center was filled with Range Rovers, Jaguars
and Mercedes-Benzes. Inside, the audience was dressed for a funeral, in suits
and ties.

''Everyone is afraid,'' said Michel Khoury, a former governor of the central
bank, as he left the memorial, a shiny new cellphone pressed to his ear. ''The
Shiite community is very important. It is the first time it is monolithic, the
first time in the history of this country you have one of the communities
united.''

In Tripoli on Sunday, tens of thousands of pro-government demonstrators rallied.

This fight between Lebanese factions, defined primarily along sectarian lines,
is a struggle for control of the government that will help determine Lebanon's
future, and whether the nation eventually leans toward Iran and Syria, as the
radical Shiite Muslim group Hezbollah would like, or toward the United States
and Europe, as the governing alliance would like.

''We are today at the last phase of our struggle before we consolidate our
independence, freedom and sovereignty, because the government has proven to be a
failure at all levels,'' said Michel Aoun, a former general and a Christian
leader, in a live video broadcast to the demonstrators in Beirut. ''They have
failed to isolate the Lebanese people from one another and we are here today to
represent unity and we are leading this struggle together.'' He has aligned his
Christian party, the Free Patriotic Movement, with Hezbollah.

He said that within a few days, the allied groups would press to form an interim
cabinet and then for early parliamentary elections. There have been rumors
flying around Beirut that the next step would be attempts to block roads, the
airport and the ports, to grind the country to a halt. But there have been no
official announcements.

Hezbollah and its allies have managed for 10 days to control the center of
Beirut with a loud, peaceful, organized protest. In many ways, Hezbollah has
adopted a strategy that has been cheered by the White House in the past, in
places like Ukraine, and even Lebanon, leaning on large, peaceful crowds to
force unpopular governments to resign and pave the way for elections.

But this time Washington and its allies have said the protest amounts to a coup
d'etat, fueling charges that the United States supports democratic practices
only when its allies are winning.

''Does Bush want national expression in Lebanon?'' Sheik Qassem said to the
crowd. ''Do the West and Arabs want the voice of the people in Lebanon? Tell
them, 'Death to America.' Tell them, 'Death to Israel.' Tell them, 'Glory to a
free Lebanon.' ''

The Hezbollah alliance took its protests to the streets after the governing
coalition refused its demands to give Hezbollah and its allies more power,
including the ability to veto all government action.

The current demonstration began Friday, with hundreds of thousands of people
pouring into the center of the city, many bused in from the poor, war-ravaged
Shiite communities of the south. The government appeared to hope that the
protesters would grow weary and go back to the negotiating table.

But on Sunday, there was the huge crowd, a vista of humanity pressed shoulder to
shoulder, flying flags and calling for the government to resign.

''We want a clean cabinet,'' read one banner.

''Victory, change, is coming,'' read another.

The gravity of the situation was underlined by roads sealed by soldiers and
razor wire, and the many shops and restaurants that remained closed.

But high spirits seemed dominant. ''I am having fun overthrowing the cabinet,''
said Hassan Katteya, 10, as he walked with his mother, Reema, through the crowd.

''We feel that we are the strong party,'' Mrs. Katteya said. ''The government is
the weak party. They are hiding up there in the Grand Serail.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters waved the Lebanese flag yesterday in Beirut, as they
called for the resignation of the government of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora.
(Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             367 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2006 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Iran's Leader Keeps the West Off Balance

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1849 words


A POPULAR joke in Iran has someone asking the conservative former president,
Hashemi Rafsanjani, what the superhighway under construction north from the
capital Tehran to the border will be called.

''Shaheed Ahmadinejad Highway,'' he responds.

Now President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is very much alive, while shaheed, or
''martyr,'' is the Islamic honor bestowed on anyone who dies fighting for God
and country. The joke is one small indication that the factions which govern
Iran, riven by endlessly bitter rivalries, are finding the bellicose president
tiresome.

There are other, more significant signs.

In the days before the general election last Friday for the Assembly of Experts,
an 86-member council that might well choose Iran's next supreme leader, some
candidates allied with Mr. Ahmadinejad's clerical mentor were eliminated as
unqualified. In addition, when the president visited Amir Kabir University in
Tehran last week, a small group of students burned his picture and chanted
''Death to the Dictator!''

The protest was less important than the way it was reported. It was featured on
the evening news on state television, which is controlled by the Islamic
Republic's powerful, but possibly ailing, supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei. Conservative newspapers and the Web site run by the former commander
of the Revolutionary Guards also reported it.

In the tea leaves used to assess the murky, shifting alliances among the
mullahs, such publicity seemed to signal that someone fairly senior is less than
enchanted with Mr. Ahmadinejad.

''There is dissent in Iran,'' said Vali Nasr, author of ''The Shiite Revival''
and a professor of Middle Eastern politics at the Naval Postgraduate School in
Monterey, Calif. ''The perspective the U.S. has of Iran being a monolithic
country under this demagogue is not correct.''

The first fissures in Mr. Ahmadinejad's popular image come at a potentially
significant moment. The Iraq Study Group recommended that the United States open
a dialogue with Iran.

Other voices in Washington deplored the idea. Many Israelis, including Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert, liken Mr. Ahmadinejad to Hitler and the Islamic Republic
to the Third Reich, and Mr. Ahmadinejad often seems to validate the comparison
by playing to the anti-Semitic gallery. Last week, Tehran hosted Holocaust
deniers from around the world, and he repeated his threat that Israel would soon
disappear.

Being seen confronting the West burnishes Mr. Ahmadinejad's populist image at
home and adds to his aura on the Arab street, feeding the mullahs' dreams of
leading the world's Muslims.

''They say Ahmadinejad is standing up to the Americans, he is standing up to the
Israelis, and he is defending our rights,'' Akhbar Ganji, Iran's leading
dissident, said in a talk at Stanford University this fall. But Mr. Ganji and a
number of other Iranian analysts say that the West falls into a trap when it
lets Mr. Ahmadinejad set the parameters of any dialogue or even interviews.

''Nobody asked him questions about democracy and human rights in Iran,'' said
Mr. Ganji, referring to recent exchanges the president had with Western
questioners. ''Nobody asked why they kill and imprison dissidents. This is the
country's Achilles' heel, and they have no answer.''

Most Iranian analysts and academics in American universities and research
institutes said in interviews that they emphatically supported negotiating with
Iran. Some question the wisdom of such talks right now, however, suggesting that
the United States needs a long-term strategy for confronting the repressive
regime rather than ad hoc discussions based on a need to extract American troops
from Iraq.

First, the Iranian experts reject the comparison with Hitler. President
Ahmadinejad, they point out, does not control the armed forces, which lack an
air force and a navy anyway. The economy is so decrepit that Iran, a leading oil
producer, has to import an estimated 40 percent of its gasoline.

''It's time for a reality check -- Iran is a third world power,'' said Ervand
Abrahamian, an expert at Baruch College on Iranian opposition movements.

The correct reaction to the Holocaust denial would be to ridicule it as rank
stupidity, he and other Iranian experts say. To compare Mr. Ahmadinejad to
Hitler is to assume wrongly ''that he is in charge of Iran and that he is the
country,'' Mr. Nasr added.

It is true that the president was once a Revolutionary Guard officer, and courts
the military with important patronage, like allowing its business wing to branch
into the oil construction sector. Over all, though, he faces limitations akin to
those faced by former President Mohamed Khatami: the main levers of power -- the
450,000-man armed forces, the judiciary and the state-run broadcasting service
-- all report to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei.

There has been a strange reversal in American perceptions, Mr. Nasr said. When
the somewhat moderate Ayatollah Khatami was president, talking to him was
dismissed as wasting time because the supreme leader was the real power. Now
that Mr. Ahmadinejad inhabits the same office, with the supreme leader still
holding the same key powers, Mr. Ahmadinejad is being portrayed as the crux.

Mr. Ganji, who recently emerged from six years in jail, expressed amazement that
American institutions like the Council on Foreign Relations and ''60 Minutes''
on CBS News let Holocaust denial completely overshadow the government's
repression.

During a 90-minute September meeting with council members in New York, for
example, participants said they could only recall a single question put to Mr.
Ahmadinejad about limited elections and shuttering the opposition press.

He was not pressed on rising unemployment, nor on the violent suppression of
striking bus drivers protesting low wages, nor on arresting bloggers and
confiscating satellite dishes to stifle debate, nor about censoring classical
literature. Nobody asked about rioting by beleaguered Iranian earthquake
survivors who resented giving money to Hezbollah supporters in Lebanon to
rebuild houses destroyed by Israel. Mr. Ahmadinejad could have written the
questions himself, the Iranian analysts argued.

Myriad voices in the United States suggest hitting Iran hard. ''We must bomb
Iran,'' began an op-ed article in The Los Angeles Times last month by Joshua
Muravchik, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, arguing that
diplomacy was ineffective.

But Iranian analysts interviewed in America mostly view a military strike as the
surest means to cement the regime in power. Some question the wisdom of
negotiating now, arguing that the West has so demonized Mr. Ahmadinejad and Iran
as threats to peace that the Islamic Republic will believe in its own superpower
ratings and not feel pressed to make concessions. ''It is very optimistic to
believe that in this situation any real negotiations can take place,'' said
Mehdi Khaliji, a visiting fellow at The Washington Institute.

With Iran, the United States needs to become both more confrontational in
private, and less bellicose publicly, he said. For example, rather than
threatening regime change and not doing much to back it up, he said, the
American military should have come down hard on Iranian interference in Iraq
while sounding more diplomatic in public. That approach would make Iran more
amenable to compromise, he said.

Azar Nafisi, the author of ''Reading Lolita in Tehran,'' quoted a former
colleague in Tehran who compared dealing with the Islamic Republic to playing
chess with a monkey. ''In the middle of the game, the monkey picks up your queen
and swallows it,'' she said. ''Then what are you going to do? You are dealing
with a country that is not going to follow your rules.''

For the United States, Europe and especially Israel, the most troubling issue is
Iran's nuclear program. Tehran will probably not be persuaded to stop its
efforts to enrich uranium, but, the Iranian analysts say, before it develops
bomb-making capability, some years of wiggle room remain to champion those
within Iran who oppose nuclear weapons.

As for Iraq, Americans and Iranians now share various interests, said Reza
Aslan, an Iranian-American academic and author of ''No God but God: The Origins,
Evolution and Future of Islam.''

Iran has been far more supportive of Iraq's democratically elected government --
not least because it is controlled by Shiite Muslims -- than neighboring Sunni
Arab states, he and other analysts note.

Moreover, these experts say, Iran abhors the prospect of Iraq imploding. It
wants neither an extremist Sunni rump state near its borders, nor a Kurdish one
that might seed unrest amid its own Kurdish minority. And it fears that a civil
war would drive millions of poor Shiites into Iran. Finally, it wants the
American soldiers to go home.

''In the end America can pack up and go home, but Iran is stuck there and they
will have to deal with any instability and chaos for decades to come,'' Mr.
Aslan said.

Aside from talking to Iran to seek common ground on Iraq, the United States
could do two other things to help hobble the radical impulses within the Islamic
Republic, the analysts say.

First, they suggest making a greater distinction between individual Iranians and
their government. They cite the treatment of about 120 prominent Iranian
academics who tried to enter the United States last summer to attend a reunion
of alumni from Sharif Industrial University, Iran's most prestigious scientific
university. They all had valid visas, but American border agents, alarmed by a
sudden rise in Iranian arrivals, deported about half of them.

Second, Mr. Ganji said, Washington could concentrate on settling the
Israeli-Palestinian dispute, which he said is fodder for religious extremism. As
long as that rages, he said, Iran's rulers will try to exploit it to distract
people from their domestic mess.

''We say that the Jews have the right to live, they have the right to a
democratic state, but the same rights must be afforded to the Palestinians,'' he
said. ''If the U.S. wants to promote democracy in this region, if it wants to
fight fundamentalism and terrorism in the region, it must find a just solution
to the question of Palestine.''

THE regime survives by fostering a crisis atmosphere, he said, but would be hard
pressed to create one from a peace deal that most Palestinians accept.

Die-hards like Mr. Ahmadinejad are bound to continue to provoke the United
States since anti-Americanism was a cornerstone of the 1979 revolution. But the
Iranian analysts say that the best way to deflate such a position is to focus
undiluted attention on what the regime has done for its people lately.

''When Mr. Ahmadinejad makes these points we should remind him that he has no
right to say anything because look at your system -- this is a system where
stoning is still legal,'' Ms. Nafisi said. ''All the talk is about Mr.
Ahmadinejad, he's become the George Clooney of the political world. I think he's
having the best time of his life.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protests -- Students expressing anger at President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad last week at a university in Tehran. Their demonstration was
reported on state television. (Photo by Hasan Sarbakhshian/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             368 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 29, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Than Antiwar

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It was a few minutes after 11 a.m. when the scattered crowd began moving slowly
toward the stage at the end of the Mall. The sky was a beautiful sunlit blue and
the Capitol building, huge and white and majestic, offered the protesters an
emotional backdrop that seemed almost close enough to touch.

''It's so big,'' said a woman from Milwaukee, who was there with her husband and
two children. ''It's lovely. Makes you want to cry.''

You can say what you want about the people opposed to this wretched war in Iraq,
try to stereotype them any way you can. But you couldn't walk among them for
more than a few minutes on Saturday without realizing that they love their
country as much as anyone ever has. They love it enough to try to save it.

By 11:15 I thought there was a chance that the march against the war would be a
bust. There just weren't that many people moving toward the stage to join the
rally that preceded the march. But the crowd kept building, slowly, steadily. It
was a good-natured crowd. Everyone was bad-mouthing the Bush administration and
the war, but everybody seemed to be smiling.

There were gray-haired women with digital cameras and young girls with braces.
There were guys trying to look cool in knit caps and shades and balding baby
boomers trading stories about Vietnam. And many ordinary families.

''Where's Hillary?'' someone asked.

That evoked laughter in the crowd. ''She's in Iowa running for president,''
someone said.

When a woman asked, ''What's her position on the war?'' a man standing next to
her cracked, ''She was for it before she was against it.''

More laughter.

The crowd kept building. There were people being pushed in wheelchairs and
babies in strollers. There were elderly men and women, walking very slowly in
some cases and holding hands.

The goal of the crowd was to get the attention of Congress and persuade it to
move vigorously to reverse the Bush war policies. But the thought that kept
returning as I watched the earnestly smiling faces, so many of them no longer
young, was the way these protesters had somehow managed to keep the faith. They
still believed, after all the years and all the lies, that they could make a
difference. They still believed their government would listen to them and
respond.

''I have to believe in this,'' said Donna Norton of Petaluma, Calif. ''I have a
daughter in the reserves and a son-in-law on active duty. I feel very, very
strongly about this.''

Betty and Peter Vinten-Johansen of East Lansing, Mich., said they felt obliged
to march, believing that they could bolster the resolve of opponents of the war
in Congress. Glancing toward the Capitol, Mr. Vinten-Johansen said, ''Maybe we
can strengthen their backbone a little bit.''

Even the celebrities who have been at this sort of thing for decades have
managed to escape the debilitating embrace of cynicism. ''How can you be
cynical?'' asked Tim Robbins, just before he mounted the stage to address the
crowd, which by that time had grown to more than 100,000.

''This is inspiring,'' he said. ''It's the real voice of the American people,
and when you hear that collective voice protesting freely it reminds you of the
greatness of our country. It gives you hope.''

When Jane Fonda said, ''Silence is no longer an option,'' she was doing more
than expressing the outrage of the crowd over the carnage in Iraq and the
president's decision to escalate American involvement. She was implicitly
re-asserting her belief in the effectiveness of citizen action.

Ms. Fonda is approaching 70 now and was at the march with her two grandchildren.
It was very touching to watch her explain how she had declined to participate in
antiwar marches for 34 years because she was afraid her notoriety would harm
rather than help the effort.

The public is way out in front of the politicians on this issue. But the
importance of Saturday's march does not lie primarily in whether it hastens a
turnaround of U.S. policy on the war. The fact that so many Americans were
willing to travel from every region of the country to march against the war was
a reaffirmation of the public's commitment to our peaceful democratic processes.

It is in that unique and unflagging commitment, not in our terrifying military
power, that the continued promise and greatness of America are to be found.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             369 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 20, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

But Wait, Senator, About the War

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 266 words


Lawmakers have fled Washington for a Congressional recess (or, as they prefer to
call it, a ''district work period''). But the debate over the Iraq war is
following many of them home.

A coalition opposed to President Bush's troop buildup plan says it is organizing
300 events across the country this week, trying to persuade, or pester, members
of Congress.

The most important targets are Republican senators who last week voted against
holding a full debate on a symbolic resolution rebuking Mr. Bush for the troop
increase.

The group, Americans Against Escalation in Iraq, has compiled an exhaustive
schedule of town-hall-style meetings and public appearances. Organizers have
sent the list to local supporters, urging them to attend the events. In an
e-mail alert, the group also urged activists to ''pummel'' lawmakers with phone
calls.

Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, who is up for re-election
next year, is one of the top lawmakers being singled out. Newspaper
advertisements running in Mr. Sununu's state have accused him of ''taking orders
from President Bush.'' In an interview, he denied the assertion.

The political challenges, though, are not limited to Republicans.

As the Democratic-controlled Congress moves to the next phase of the Iraq debate
and begins working on legislation devised to narrow the mission of the war, the
Democratic Party faces internal fissures on whether military spending should be
reduced. Liberals say yes. Moderates are not so sure. Watch for those
deliberations to flare when Congress returns to Capitol Hill on Feb. 26.   JEFF
ZELENY

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             370 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 23, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Australians Protest Iraq War And a Visit by Cheney

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Australian police clashed with antiwar demonstrators in
Sydney yesterday during noisy protests against a three-day visit by Vice
President Dick Cheney, who arrived a few hours later and went to a hotel. Ten
people were arrested. Mr. Cheney said in a speech today that China's recent test
of antisatellite weapons and its rapid military buildup were ''not consistent''
with its stated aim of a peaceful rise as a global power. (Photo by Ian
Waldie/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Mark Baker/Associated Press)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             371 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2007 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visit by Bush Fires Up Latins' Debate Over Socialism

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and LARRY ROHTER; Jim Rutenberg reported from Sao
Paulo, and Larry Rohter from Buenos Aires.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1046 words

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, March 8


President Bush has portrayed his trip to Latin America this week as a ''We
Care'' tour aimed at dispelling perceptions that he has neglected his southern
neighbors.

But fresh graffiti on streets here in Sao Paulo, where he landed Thursday night
for his first stop, calls him a murderer. The smattering of protests and the
placement of military vehicles around the city, South America's largest, also
present an alternate interpretation of his visit: as a clash between the open
capitalism that Mr. Bush espouses and the socialist approach pushed by leftist
leaders who have grown in power and popularity.

And as the administration prepares to use the president's five-nation tour to
highlight a new ethanol development deal with Brazil, the most efficient
producer of the fuel, and American health care and education programs elsewhere,
much of the tour attention is focusing on what may best be called ''the Rumble
on the River.''

President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, Mr. Bush's chief nemesis in the region, will
be leading a protest against him in Buenos Aires, as Mr. Bush arrives Friday in
Montevideo, Uruguay, across Rio de la Plata from Argentina. ''Our planes will
almost cross paths,'' Mr. Chavez said this week, though he denied any intention
to sabotage Mr. Bush's visit.

In interviews with Latin American reporters this week, Mr. Bush played down Mr.
Chavez's planned rally, telling one group on Tuesday: ''I go a lot of places and
there are street rallies. And my attitude is, I love freedom and the right for
people to express themselves.''

Whether inadvertently or not, though, Mr. Bush irritated Mr. Chavez with a
speech on Monday in Washington, in which he said Simon Bolivar, the hero of
South America's independence struggle and Mr. Chavez's idol, ''belongs to all of
us who love liberty.'' This brought a sharp and sarcastic rejoinder from Mr.
Chavez the next day.

But in spite of administration attempts to minimize the shadow cast on the visit
by Mr. Chavez -- who has pushed an aggressively anti-American agenda throughout
the region -- the tour itself seems at least in part geared to counter his
influence. Mr. Chavez has built that influence in part by showering poor
communities with money for housing and health care and by freely dispensing oil
at cut-rate prices.

Mr. Bush's new agreement with Brazil to increase ethanol production in the
region represents a way to cut back on the influence that Mr. Chavez's oil
supply gives him, while encouraging employment and economic development. And
before arriving here, Mr. Bush announced a number of programs to help the poor
in the region, whom he referred to, in Spanish, as ''workers and peasants.''

He promised hundreds of millions of dollars to help families buy homes and said
he would dispatch a Navy hospital ship to the region to provide free health
services.

In his interviews this week, Mr. Bush has repeated that the United States' aid
to the region has doubled during his tenure, to about $1.6 billion annually.
''When you total all up the money that is spent, because of the generosity of
our taxpayers, that's $8.5 billion to programs that promote social justice,''
including education and health, he told reporters on Tuesday.

But the view from here could scarcely be more different.

In an editorial headlined ''Uncle Scrooge's Paltry Package,'' the conservative
daily newspaper O Estado de Sao Paulo noted Wednesday that Mr. Bush's offering
amounted to ''the equivalent of five days' cost of the war in Iraq, and a drop
of water compared with the ocean of petrodollars in which Chavezism is
navigating at full speed, from Argentina to Nicaragua.''

Some of Mr. Bush's aides said they were worried that perceptions that the United
States had neglected its southern neighbors, and frustration in lower classes
that had not reaped the benefits of free trade, were helping to fuel leftist
movements.

Stephen J. Hadley, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, said, ''Something we
have not done well enough is getting out the full scope of the president's
message.''

Mr. Bush told reporters that he hoped to counter Mr. Chavez's message by
espousing the benefits of free trade.

Asked by a reporter about Mr. Chavez's ''so-called alternative development
model'' calling for nationalization of industry, Mr. Bush said: ''I strongly
believe that government-run industry is inefficient and will lead to more
poverty. I believe if the state tries to run the economy, it will enhance
poverty and reduce opportunity.''

He added, ''So the United States brings a message of open markets and open
government to the region.''

But even Mr. Bush's Brazilian hosts seemed divided in their reaction to that
message. Although President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva will be meeting with Mr.
Bush on Friday to sign the ethanol accord and is scheduled to visit him at Camp
David on March 31, the leftist Workers' Party he leads has chosen to support and
take part in the anti-Bush demonstrations.

The party warned on its Web site that Mr. Bush ''shouldn't count on Brazil for
imperialist actions in the region.'' One essay called him ''the big boss of
international terrorism,'' while another declared that Mr. Bush was ''persona
non grata'' in Brazil.

''The United States in general and the Bush government in particular are
brutally violent,'' wrote Valter Pomar, the party's secretary for international
relations. ''We will only be free of this threat when the North American people
constitute a government on the left.''

At an evening rush-hour protest in the central business district here, several
thousand activists wore stickers showing Mr. Bush with a Hitler-style mustache
and a swastika next to his head and the words ''Fora Bush,'' or ''Bush Out.''

With the police standing by in riot gear, antiwar protesters mixed with
unionists and environmentalists, who are concerned that harvesting ethanol from
sugar could hurt the Amazon. A sea of signs read ''Adolf Bush'' or ''Quit
Playing With the Environment.''

Later, the Brazilian news media reported that police officers used tear gas and
batons on protesters who were throwing rocks and struggling with the officers,
sending hundreds of demonstrators running through the streets of Sao Paulo.
There were no major injuries reported.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Policemen in Sao Paulo, Brazil subduing a demonstrator yesterday
during a march to protest President Bush's tour, which started last night.
(Photo by Maurilio Cheli/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             372 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 13, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Arrests At Antiwar Protest

BYLINE: By KATE HAMMER; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 124 words


Twenty students were arrested yesterday at an antiwar protest in an Army and
Navy recruiting station at 157 Chambers Street. The protest began at noon when
members of the group, Students for a Democratic Society, marched from the
campuses of Pace University and the New School and converged near the
recruitment center. The 20 staged a sit-in while about 40 others stood outside
chanting antiwar slogans, banging steel drums and waving posters. Organizers
said that the students were demonstrating against military recruitment
practices, and that the protest was intended to call attention to the fourth
anniversary of the start of the Iraq war, which will be next week. The police
said the 20 would be charged with criminal trespass.    KATE HAMMER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             373 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 17, 2007 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

10 Detainees Pull Off Escape As Visitors Take Their Place

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Michael R. Gordon contributed reporting from
Washington, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Diyala, Kirkuk, Hilla
and Baghdad.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 805 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, March 16


Ten Iraqis being held in a British military detention center in Basra carried
out an audacious escape plan over the past several days: they switched places
with visitors, British authorities said Friday.

An 11th detainee was missing, but no one appeared to have been substituted for
him, British authorities said. The detention center is at a British base on the
outskirts of Basra.

The escape came to light on Thursday, when it became apparent that ''one person
was not who he said he was,'' said a spokesman, speaking on condition of
anonymity. The military began to investigate and found that nine other detainees
were also substitutes. The real ones had walked out the door, apparently after
swapping clothes with their willing stand-ins, British officials said.

The substitutions were carefully plotted, and the imposters ''were remarkably
well prepared,'' the spokesman said.

''They looked the same,'' he said. ''They knew the stories of the people they
were substituting for. It was quite a sophisticated effort, very carefully
planned.''

Because none of the detainees who escaped had yet been charged with a crime, the
British military would not provide any details about their cases or the facility
in which they were held, including its size or the length of time that they had
been held there.

British officials said that security was now tighter, but that when detainees
received visitors before, there had been little monitoring.

''They are allowed a large number of visitors, and we are not allowed to stand
over them when they are visiting them,'' the spokesman said.

There has been no decision how to deal with the imposters, but they are likely
to be charged with having assisted the escape, the military spokesman said.

''I'm afraid that there are now people inside who shouldn't be,'' he said. ''We
are very unhappy about it all.''

Thousands of Iraqis are held in American and British facilities in Iraq awaiting
determinations on whether they will be charged with crimes. Some have been
detained for more than two years.

Across Iraq, 12 bodies were found on Friday: nine in Diyala Province and three
in Kirkuk, according to local police reports and the Ministry of Interior. On
Thursday, the bodies of five people were found in Tikrit, including of two women
and two policemen; all five had been shot.

A tanker truck exploded late Friday near Ameriya al Falluja, outside the city of
Falluja, west of Baghdad, according to reports by the satellite network Al
Arabiya. The news report described the explosion as a terrorist attack and said
that three people had died and 79 had been wounded. There were few details and
it was not possible to verify the report.

The United States Army announced Friday that it was speeding up the deployment
to Iraq of some 2,600 soldiers from a combat aviation unit. They are among the
support troops that the Pentagon has said are needed to back the additional
combat troops President Bush has sent to the region.

Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates approved the deployment of the soldiers, from
the Army's Third Infantry Division combat aviation brigade, 45 days earlier than
planned, meaning they will go around May, the military told Pentagon reporters.

Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in the vast Sadr City district of
Baghdad to rally against the deployment of American troops in the neighborhood.
A similar demonstration was planned for the city of Hilla, south of Baghdad, but
was prevented by a government curfew.

The objections, coming after nearly two weeks in which supporters of the
anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr appeared to have tacitly approved the
establishment of security centers for Iraqi and American troops, seem to have
been prompted by an attack that seriously wounded Sadr City's mayor on Thursday.

After Friday Prayer, the Sadr City crowds chanted, ''We swear by God we shall
burn your bases if you install them,'' and they carried banners that said
''Down, down U.S.A.''

Mr. Sadr sent a statement to his followers urging them to protest the American
presence. ''I'm very sure that you consider them as enemies,'' the statement
said, and it asked his followers to shout: ''No, no, America. No, no, Israel.
No, no, Satan.''

However, the tone was far less angry than at other times Mr. Sadr has urged
opposition to the military. Instead, the statement mostly seemed to be an effort
by the cleric to distance himself from the security plan without making any
substantial effort to thwart it.

Also Friday, Saddoun Humadi, one of the most senior Shiites in the government of
Saddam Hussein, died in Jordan, according to Jordanian news reports. Mr. Humadi,
a former prime minister and speaker in the Iraqi Parliament, was arrested by the
United States after the invasion, but was later released and went to Jordan.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers of the Interior Ministry yesterday joined tens
of thousands of people in Sadr City protesting the American military presence
there. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             374 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 19, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Antiwar March In Midtown

BYLINE: By KAI MA; Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 108 words


Thousands of war protesters, including union members, veterans and church
groups, marched through Midtown yesterday afternoon, starting at Bryant Park and
moving along 42nd Street, up Third Avenue to 57th Street and down Second Avenue
to 47th Street. The demonstration was one of several nationwide, including one
on Saturday in Washington, in advance of the fourth anniversary of the invasion
of Iraq, which is tomorrow. The police lined the sidewalks along the route,
which passed the offices of Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E.
Schumer. No violence was reported during the march, and no arrests were made,
the police said.    KAI MA

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             375 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 21, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Flemington: Charges Dismissed For War Protester

BYLINE: Compiled by John Sullivan

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 115 words


Charges were dismissed yesterday against a man arrested in Flemington in the
summer of 2005 after the police said he organized an antiwar protest in the
borough without receiving a permit. The man, Bob Flisser, was fined $100 after
the police charged he organized a protest of 24 people in front of the
courthouse in Flemington, said his lawyer, Fernando M. Pinguelo. The American
Civil Liberties Union argued that the town's ordinance was overly broad and
helped Mr. Flisser appeal. Yesterday, Flemington officials asked a State
Superior Court judge to dismiss the charges. The borough's lawyer, Barry
Goodman, said that borough officials did not want to spend the money to fight
the appeal.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             376 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

IRAQ PROTESTERS, CALLED BY CLERIC, SAY U.S. MUST GO

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed
reporting from Najaf and Diwaniya.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, April 9


Tens of thousands of protesters loyal to Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite cleric,
took to the streets of the holy city of Najaf on Monday in an extraordinarily
disciplined rally to demand an end to the American military presence in Iraq,
burning American flags and chanting ''Death to America!''

Residents said that the angry, boisterous demonstration was the largest in
Najaf, the heart of Shiite religious power, since the American-led invasion in
2003. It took place on the fourth anniversary of the fall of Baghdad, and it was
an obvious effort by Mr. Sadr to show the extent of his influence here in Iraq,
even though he did not appear at the rally. Mr. Sadr went underground after the
American military began a new security push in Baghdad on Feb. 14, and his
whereabouts are unknown.

Mr. Sadr used the protest to try to reassert his image as a nationalist rebel
who appeals to both anti-American Shiites and Sunni Arabs. He established that
reputation in 2004, when he publicly supported Sunni insurgents in Falluja who
were battling United States marines, and quickly gained popularity among Sunnis
across Iraq and the region. But his nationalist credentials have been tarnished
in the last year, as Sunni Arabs have accused Mr. Sadr's militia, the Mahdi
Army, of torturing and killing Sunnis.

Iraqi policemen and soldiers lined the path taken by the protesters, and there
were no reports of violence during the day. The American military handed
security oversight of the city and province of Najaf to the Iraqi government in
December, and the calm atmosphere showed that the Iraqi security forces could
maintain control, keeping suicide bombers away from an obvious target. In March,
when millions of Shiite pilgrims flocked to the holy cities of the south, Iraqi
security forces in provinces adjoining Najaf failed to stop bombers from killing
scores of them.

Vehicles were not allowed near Monday's march, and Baghdad had a daylong ban on
traffic to prevent outbreaks of violence.

During the protest in Najaf, Sadr followers draped themselves in Iraqi flags and
waved them to symbolize national unity, and a small number of conservative Sunni
Arabs took part in the march.

''We have 30 people who came,'' said Ayad Abdul Wahab, an agriculture professor
in Basra and an official in the Iraqi Islamic Party, a leading fundamentalist
Sunni Arab group. ''We support Moktada in this demonstration, and we stress our
rejection of foreign occupation.''

He and his friends together carried a 30-foot-long Iraqi flag.

In the four years of war, the only other person who has been able to call for
protests of this scale has been Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq's most
powerful Shiite cleric, who, like Mr. Sadr, has a home in Najaf.

The protest was in some ways another challenge to the Shiite clerical hierarchy,
showing that in the new Iraq, a violent young upstart like Mr. Sadr can command
the masses right in the backyard of venerable clerics like Ayatollah Sistani.
Mr. Sadr has increasingly tapped into a powerful desire among Shiites to stand
up forcefully to both the American presence and militant Sunnis, and to ignore
calls for moderation from older clerics.

Lt. Col. Christopher Garver, an American military spokesman in Baghdad, said
that American officers had helped officials in Najaf plan security for the
event, but that the Iraqis had taken the lead.

Colonel Garver and other American officials tried to put the best possible light
on the event, despite the fiery words. ''We say that we're here to support
democracy,'' he said. ''We say that free speech and freedom of assembly are part
of that. While we don't necessarily agree with the message, we agree with their
right to say it.''

The protest unfolded as heavy fighting continued in parts of Diwaniya, a
southern city where American and Iraqi forces have been battling cells of the
Mahdi Army since Friday. Mr. Sadr issued a statement on Sunday calling for the
Mahdi militiamen and the Iraqi forces there to stop fighting each other, but
those words went unheeded. Gun battles broke out on Monday, and an American
officer said at a news conference that at least one American soldier had been
killed and one wounded in four days of clashes.

That fighting and the protest in Najaf, as well as Mr. Sadr's mysterious
absence, raise questions about how much control he actually maintains over his
militia. Mr. Sadr is obviously still able to order huge numbers of people into
the streets, but there has been talk that branches of his militia have split off
and now operate independently. In Baghdad, some Mahdi Army cells have refrained
in the last two months from attacking Americans and carrying out killings of
Sunni Arabs, supposedly on orders from Mr. Sadr, but bodies of Sunnis have begun
reappearing in some neighborhoods in recent weeks.

The protest in Najaf was made up mostly of young men, many of whom drove down
from the sprawling Sadr City section of Baghdad, some 100 miles north, the
previous night. They gathered Monday morning in the town of Kufa, where Mr. Sadr
has his main mosque, and walked a few miles to Sadrain Square in Najaf.
Protesters stomped on American flags and burned them. ''No, no America; leave,
leave occupier,'' they chanted. At Sadrain Square, the protesters listened to a
statement read over loudspeakers that was attributed to Mr. Sadr.

''Oh Iraqi people, you are aware, as 48 months have passed, that we live in a
state of oppression, unjust repression and occupation,'' the statement read.
''Forty-eight hard months -- that make four years -- in which we have gotten
nothing but more killing, destruction and degradation. Tens of people are being
killed every day. Tens are disabled every day.''

Mr. Sadr added: ''America made efforts to stoke sectarian strife, and here I
would like to tell you, the sons of the two rivers, that you have proved your
ability to surpass difficulties and sacrifice yourselves, despite the
conspiracies of the evil powers against you.''

An Interior Ministry employee in a flowing tan robe, Haider Abdul Rahim Mustafa,
23, said that he had come from Basra ''to demand the withdrawal of the
occupier.''

''The occupier supported Saddam and helped him to become stronger, then removed
him because his cards were burned,'' he said, using an Arabic expression to note
that Saddam Hussein was no longer useful to the United States. ''The fall of
Saddam means nothing to us as long as the alternative is the American
occupation.''

Estimates of the crowd's size varied wildly. A police commander in Najaf, Brig.
Gen. Abdul Karim al-Mayahi, said there were at least half a million people.
Colonel Garver said that military reports had estimates of 5,000 to 7,000.
Residents and other Iraqi officials said there were tens of thousands, and
television images of the rally seemed to support their estimates.

The colonel declined to give any information on the whereabouts of Mr. Sadr,
though American military officials said weeks ago that they believed he is in
Iran. Mr. Sadr's aides declined to say where he is, but previously they have
said he remained in Iraq.

In Diwaniya, hospital officials said their wards were overwhelmed by casualties.
There was a shortage of food and oxygen, and ambulances were being blocked from
the scene of combat, said Dr. Hamid Jaati, the city's health director. The main
hospital received 13 dead Iraqis and 41 injured ones over the weekend, he added.

The fighting started Friday after the provincial council and governor called for
the Iraqi Army and American forces to take on the Sadr militiamen. The governor
and 28 of 40 council members belong to a powerful Shiite party called the
Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, which is the main rival to
the Sadr organization. Sadr officials have accused the party of using the
military to carry out a political grudge, but the governor, Khalil Jalil Hamza,
denied that on Monday.

In Diyala Province, northeast of Baghdad, a suicide car bomb killed three
civilians and wounded four others on Sunday night, police officials said Monday.
Also in Diyala, a local politician was fatally shot on Monday in Hibhib, and
three bodies were found in Khalis.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters waved Iraqi flags as they marched in Najaf, south of
Baghdad, to demand the withdrawal of U.S. forces. Event security was handled by
Iraqi troops and police officers, and there were no reports of violence. (Photo
by Ceerwan Aziz/Reuters)(pg. A13)
 Iraqis tore an American flag at a protest rally in Najaf called by the Shiite
cleric Moktada al-Sadr on the fourth anniversary of Baghdad's fall. (Photo by
Wathiq Khuzaie/Getty Images)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             377 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 18, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Demonstration in Basra Signals Growing Tensions Between Iraqi Shiites

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed
reporting from Basra and Diwaniya.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, April 17


In the latest sign of worsening tensions among Shiite factions, several hundred
people demonstrated Tuesday to force the governor of Basra to step down, a move
that could throw that already unsettled southern city into turmoil.

The protesters gathered in 13 tents at the edge of the Ashar River in Basra,
Iraq's second-largest city, for the start of a three-day demonstration in front
of the governor's office. They were drawn from several groups, but among them
were people who appeared to have links to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr.

Mr. Sadr's movement has been increasingly at odds with the government, even
though his party is a member of the Shiite coalition that helped put Prime
Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki in power. On Monday, six ministers allied to Mr.
Sadr announced that they were leaving the government.

The governor, Muhammad al-Waeli, is from Fadhila, a Shiite party that also
recently withdrew from the Shiite coalition in Parliament, though his party is
at odds with Mr. Sadr's faction.

Government officials in Baghdad said that the governor was under pressure to
resign but that there was no sign yet that he would give up power. His
resignation could dangerously heighten competition for power among the Shiite
political parties in Basra -- all of which are struggling to control the
oil-rich area that is close to the Persian Gulf.

In Basra, Diwaniya and Kut, all areas in the south, there have been fights
between Mr. Sadr's organization and government forces, even though each is
dominated by Shiites.

The protesters on Tuesday complained primarily about the lack services in the
city, including electricity, potable water and jobs. Several protesters
described Mr. Waeli as a corrupt politician who gave jobs only to people from
his own party.

''We want to live like human beings, and our city lacks a lot of services,''
said one of the protesters, Assad Nusaef, who was wearing the black clothes
favored by Sadr loyalists. ''We don't have pure water, and we have to buy water
from official factories.''

''We are an oil state, but we live in poverty and the governor and his party is
behind the joblessness,'' he added. ''The Fadhila loyalists fill the jobs at the
Southern Oil Company and they don't allow any one else to be employed by this
company.'' The Southern Oil Company is the state-owned concern in southern Iraq.

Supporters of Fadhila denied the charges and said they were a target of
animosity because they had withdrawn from the Shiite coalition government.

''I know there have been mistakes, but we oppose the use of any violence against
us,'' said Wael Samir, a Fadhila Party member. ''This protest is against the
Fadhila Party, not the governor, because Fadhila withdrew from the Shiite
group.''

In Diwaniya, another southern province, government forces and American troops
were in the last stages of a multiday operation against gunmen allied with Mr.
Sadr. The American soldiers distributed leaflets in the city on Tuesday, urging
residents to turn over seven men ''wanted for killing innocent people.''

American forces continued to search all vehicles entering the city, according to
the local police. About 135 people have been detained in the operation,
according to Iraqi security forces.

Violence in Baghdad was modest on Tuesday, with several people wounded by mortar
shells and gunshots. However, 25 bodies were found, according to an Interior
Ministry official -- a higher tally than in recent weeks. If the trend persists,
it could signal a return of the death squad activities that had slackened since
United States and Iraqi forces began a new security plan in Baghdad on Feb. 14.

In Mosul, the police killed a suicide truck bomber as he approached the gate of
an Iraqi Army base, said Brig. Saeed al-Jibouri. The truck exploded, either as a
result of the shots or because the bomber detonated it before he died, killing a
civilian and wounding four others. However, the damage would have been much
worse had the driver reached his target.

In Ramadi, in Anbar Province, security forces found 17 bodies buried at a
primary school, said Col. Tariq Yousif, the security supervisor in the city. The
area had been under the control of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.

The United States military reported that one soldier died Monday from wounds
sustained when his vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb.

The military also clarified that its first reports on Monday that soldiers had
mistakenly killed three Iraqi policemen in a raid in Ramadi were incorrect. The
people killed were armed men, but not the police.   Gates Comments on Iraq
Shuffle

(By The New York Times)

AMMAN, Jordan, April 17 -- The resignation of six cabinet members loyal to Mr.
Sadr could be a ''positive development'' if their replacements help reduce
sectarian tensions, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Tuesday.

But he acknowledged that the motives of the Shiite cleric in withdrawing his
followers from the government remained a mystery. Mr. Gates said the impact of
the move, which has raised fears of intensifying sectarian violence, was still
unknown.

American officials have long pushed Prime Minister Maliki to appoint more Sunnis
to his Shiite-dominated government to reduce support for the insurgency.

''I think that the impact that these resignations have will depend in some
measure on who is selected to replace these ministers and whether those
vacancies are used in a way that can further advance the reconciliation
process,'' Mr. Gates told reporters after talks with officials here.

He avoided calling on Mr. Maliki to appoint Sunnis to replace the departed
ministers, but said ''broadening representation in the cabinet'' was a possible
option to advance the reconciliation process.

Mr. Gates, on a weeklong trip to the region, met Tuesday with King Abdullah II
of Jordan.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             378 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 7, 2007 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

SARKOZY, ELECTED IN FRANCE, VOWS BREAK WITH PAST

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Ariane Bernard and Maia de la Baume contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

DATELINE: PARIS, May 6


Nicolas Sarkozy, the passionate, pugnacious son of a Hungarian immigrant, was
elected president of France on Sunday, promising a break with the past, a new
style of leadership, and a renewal of relations with the United States and the
rest of Europe.

Mr. Sarkozy's triumph over Segolene Royal, the Socialist candidate, was a huge
blow to her party and dashed her dream of becoming the country's first female
president. But Ms. Royal tried to rally her supporters, telling them French
politics had forever changed with her candidacy.

With the entire vote counted, Mr. Sarkozy had 53.1 percent and Ms. Royal 46.9
percent, according to official Interior Ministry figures.

Ms. Royal had repeatedly appealed to the women of France to vote for her in a
show of female solidarity. But Mr. Sarkozy, a conservative who made his
reputation as a hard-line minister of the interior, got the majority of the
women's vote, according to Ipsos, an international polling company.

Its telephone poll showed that the youngest voters supported Ms. Royal,
artisans, shopkeepers and rural voters preferred Mr. Sarkozy, and city dwellers
were divided. Mr. Sarkozy's strongest support came from voters 60 years and
older.

His victory set off scattered anti-Sarkozy violence in Paris and some other
cities, but for the most part France stayed calm.

Turnout was exceptionally high. Eighty-four percent of France's 44.5 million
registered voters cast ballots, about four percentage points higher than the
level five years ago.

In an emotional acceptance speech to thousands of cheering supporters in a
rented concert hall in the chic Eighth Arrondissement, Mr. Sarkozy (pronounced
SAR-ko-zee) renewed his campaign pledge to break what he called the old,
outmoded habits of France.

''The French people have chosen change,'' Mr. Sarkozy declared. ''I will
implement that change. Because that is the mandate I received and because France
needs change.''

He vowed to ''break with the ideas, the habits and the behavior of the past''
and to ''rehabilitate work, authority, morality, respect and merit.'' Mr.
Sarkozy has pledged to remake France by, among other things, slashing
unemployment, cutting taxes, keeping trains running during strikes, making
people work harder and longer, shrinking the government bureaucracy, reforming
pension rules and making it easier to create new businesses.

Widely criticized in France for his strong pro-American sentiments, Mr. Sarkozy
sought in his acceptance speech to strike a balanced approach to the United
States.

Addressing France's ''American friends,'' he said, ''I want to tell them that
France will always be by their side when they need her, but that friendship is
also accepting the fact that friends can think differently.'' .

He specifically criticized the United States for obstructing the fight against
global warming, which he said would be a high priority.

President Bush telephoned Mr. Sarkozy to congratulate him, saying he ''looks
forward to working with president-elect Sarkozy as we continue our strong
alliance,'' Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman, said in a statement.

Foreshadowing activism in the world, Mr. Sarkozy called for a new union of the
Mediterranean region, vowed to fight poverty, tyranny and oppression, and forge
a new role for the European Union, declaring, ''Tonight, France is back in
Europe.''

He also struck a conciliatory note, reaching out to the huge swath of French
people who seem to fear him, especially in the country's ethnically and racially
mixed suburbs, where he is accused of fueling tensions with his provocative
language and an aggressive police presence.

''To all those French who did not vote for me, I want to say, beyond political
battles, beyond differences of opinion, for me there is only one France,'' Mr.
Sarkozy said. ''I want to tell them that I will be president of all the
French.''

In conceding defeat at her campaign headquarters on the Left Bank, Ms. Royal
acknowledged the sadness and pain of her supporters, whom she thanked for their
efforts.

''The voters have spoken,'' Ms. Royal said. ''I hope the next president will
fulfill his mission in the service of all the French people.''

But she also said the election campaign had changed the French left forever,
hinting at disarray in her party and suggesting the Socialists may seek to form
an alliance with the large following of Francois Bayrou, the centrist candidate.
''Something rose up that will not stop,'' she said, adding, ''You can count on
me to deepen the renewal of the left.''

She never mentioned Mr. Sarkozy by name.

With his raw, often divisive rhetoric, Mr. Sarkozy will have to change course to
neutralize deep-rooted hostility against him, particularly in the tough ethnic
suburbs.

About 2,000 people gathered at Place de la Bastille in central Paris to await
the election results, with some burning an effigy of Mr. Sarkozy before tearing
it apart.

But within two hours of the polls closing, the scene had degenerated into
violent clashes between the police and several hundred people in the crowd who
smashed windows and set one vehicle on fire.

By midnight, the square was shrouded in tear gas, with riot police officers
cowering from paving stones pitched by young men. Bursts of police water cannons
followed.

''Police everywhere, justice nowhere!'' some protesters shouted. Others yelled,
''Sarko, Fascist! The people will get you!'' The base of the Bastille column in
the square was left scrawled with graffiti, including, ''Sarko 2007 = Hitler
1933.''

Four policemen and one civilian were injured, the police said.

In Lyon, France's second-largest city, the police used tear gas on anti-Sarkozy
protesters in the main square. There were other isolated episodes of protest in
cities and towns across the country, including Grenoble, Rennes, Nantes,
Bordeaux, Toulouse, Metz and Marseille.

Nonetheless, there was no repetition of the orgy of unrest that gripped the
country's troubled multiracial and multiethnic suburbs in late 2005.

Meanwhile, Mr. Sarkozy celebrated. After his acceptance speech, he blew kisses
to the crowd before heading toward a restaurant on the Avenue des
Champs-Elysees.

Mr. Sarkozy's wife, Cecilia, who has been notably absent during most of the
campaign, was not with him throughout the day.

He was accompanied to his acceptance speech by his two sons from a first
marriage and his two adult stepdaughters. Mrs. Sarkozy joined her husband at the
restaurant and accompanied him to an outdoor victory party at the Place de la
Concorde.

There, 30,000 supporters filled the square where revolutionaries once
guillotined monarchists, chanting, ''Nicolas! Nicolas! Nicolas!''

Mr. Sarkozy gave another upbeat speech. He clapped as Faudel, a French singer of
Algerian origin, performed. Everyone sang the Marseillaise.

''I am very happy because he is the only one who can save France,'' said Michele
Mault, who is 50 years old and unemployed. ''Sarkozy gives hope to someone like
me who has no job, and especially to my children.''

The election was a triumph of raw ambition, efficiency and political
sleight-of-hand. The French president is an odd invention -- part monarch and
part elected politician. There is no other elected political office in Europe
that comes with as much power and grandeur.

Throughout the campaign, Mr. Sarkozy had portrayed himself as an outsider, an
immigrant's son with a foreign-sounding name, a man who never went to one of
France's elite universities. He is also the quintessential political insider,
however, a longtime figure in party politics and a member of the cabinet of
President Jacques Chirac for much of the past five years. But he succeeded in
making himself look like a political outsider, distancing himself from Mr.
Chirac, who was seen by the French as old, tired and powerless in the twilight
of his 12-year presidency.

Mr. Sarkozy ran an extraordinarily disciplined campaign with a single message:
change, but not too much to scare voters.

Ms. Royal's direct grass-roots appeal to the French people and her pledge to be
their ''protector'' was revolutionary. But Ms. Royal, a former schools and
environment minister, found herself in the odd position of being the candidate
of her Socialist Party without enjoying the support of its elite.

Her campaign was fraught with mixed messages, defections and shifting
strategies. She never seemed to convince voters that she had enough substance.

Twenty-two years younger than Mr. Chirac, Mr. Sarkozy also represents a
generational change in French politics, in which World War II and the cold war
are not determining factors.

Supporters of the centrist candidate, Mr. Bayrou, who came in third place in the
first round with nearly seven million votes, split their vote almost evenly
between Mr. Sarkozy, with 40 percent, and Ms. Royal, with 38 percent, according
to Ipsos.

The data was taken from a poll carried out by phone on Sunday on a sample of
3,609 people, representative of French registered voters.

Mr. Sarkozy officially will assume office ten days from now, a few hours before
Mr. Chirac's mandate ends. In a formal meeting, Mr. Chirac will hand over the
secret codes for France's nuclear weapons.

There will be a 21-gun salute; the Marseillaise will be played.

The President of the Constitutional Council will read the results of the
election. The Grand Chancellor of the Legion of Honor will make Mr. Sarkozy
Grand Master of the Order.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of Nicolas Sarkozy celebrated yesterday in the Place
de la Concorde in Paris, after hearing the official announcement that Mr.
Sarkozy had won the runoff election for the French presidency. (Photo by Ruth
Fremson/The New York Times)
 Riot police officers fought with protesters in Paris after the election of Mr.
Sarkozy. There was scattered violence by anti-Sarkozy demonstrators there and in
some other cities, but most of France was calm. (Photo by Eric
Gaillard/Reuters)(pg. A16)  Chart/Map: ''How the French Voted'' Nicolas Sarkozy,
the conservative candidate, beat his Socialist adversary in 16 of 22 regions.
WINNER BY REGION: Nicolas Sarkozy NATIONAL TOTALS: 53%  WINNER BY REGION:
Segolene Royal NATIONAL TOTALS: 47%  Map of France highlighting Paris, Lyon, and
Marseille.  (Source by Interior Ministry)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             379 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 23, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. SCRUTINIZES ANTIWAR RALLIES

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22


The Federal Bureau of Investigation has collected extensive information on the
tactics, training and organization of antiwar demonstrators and has advised
local law enforcement officials to report any suspicious activity at protests to
its counterterrorism squads, according to interviews and a confidential bureau
memorandum.

The memorandum, which the bureau sent to local law enforcement agencies last
month in advance of antiwar demonstrations in Washington and San Francisco,
detailed how protesters have sometimes used "training camps" to rehearse for
demonstrations, the Internet to raise money and gas masks to defend against tear
gas. The memorandum analyzed lawful activities like recruiting demonstrators, as
well as illegal activities like using fake documentation to get into a secured
site.

F.B.I. officials said in interviews that the intelligence-gathering effort was
aimed at identifying anarchists and "extremist elements" plotting violence, not
at monitoring the political speech of law-abiding protesters.

The initiative has won the support of some local police, who view it as a
critical way to maintain order at large-scale demonstrations. Indeed, some law
enforcement officials said they believed the F.B.I.'s approach had helped to
ensure that nationwide antiwar demonstrations in recent months, drawing hundreds
of thousands of protesters, remained largely free of violence and disruption.

But some civil rights advocates and legal scholars said the monitoring program
could signal a return to the abuses of the 1960's and 1970's, when J. Edgar
Hoover was the F.B.I. director and agents routinely spied on political
protesters like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

"The F.B.I. is dangerously targeting Americans who are engaged in nothing more
than lawful protest and dissent," said Anthony Romero, executive director of the
American Civil Liberties Union. "The line between terrorism and legitimate civil
disobedience is blurred, and I have a serious concern about whether we're going
back to the days of Hoover."

Herman Schwartz, a constitutional law professor at American University who has
written about F.B.I. history, said collecting intelligence at demonstrations is
probably legal.

But he added: "As a matter of principle, it has a very serious chilling effect
on peaceful demonstration. If you go around telling people, 'We're going to
ferret out information on demonstrations,' that deters people. People don't want
their names and pictures in F.B.I. files."

The abuses of the Hoover era, which included efforts by the F.B.I. to harass and
discredit Hoover's political enemies under a program known as Cointelpro, led to
tight restrictions on F.B.I. investigations of political activities.

Those restrictions were relaxed significantly last year, when Attorney General
John Ashcroft issued guidelines giving agents authority to attend political
rallies, mosques and any event "open to the public."

Mr. Ashcroft said the Sept. 11 attacks made it essential that the F.B.I. be
allowed to investigate terrorism more aggressively. The bureau's recent strategy
in policing demonstrations is an outgrowth of that policy, officials said.

"We're not concerned with individuals who are exercising their constitutional
rights," one F.B.I. official said. "But it's obvious that there are individuals
capable of violence at these events. We know that there are anarchists that are
actively involved in trying to sabotage and commit acts of violence at these
different events, and we also know that these large gatherings would be a prime
target for terrorist groups."

Civil rights advocates, relying largely on anecdotal evidence, have complained
for months that federal officials have surreptitiously sought to suppress the
First Amendment rights of antiwar demonstrators.

Critics of the Bush administration's Iraq policy, for instance, have sued the
government to learn how their names ended up on a "no fly" list used to stop
suspected terrorists from boarding planes. Civil rights advocates have accused
federal and local authorities in Denver and Fresno, Calif., of spying on antiwar
demonstrators or infiltrating planning meetings. And the New York Police
Department this year questioned many of those arrested at demonstrations about
their political affiliations, before halting the practice and expunging the data
in the face of public criticism.

The F.B.I. memorandum, however, appears to offer the first corroboration of a
coordinated, nationwide effort to collect intelligence regarding demonstrations.

The memorandum, circulated on Oct. 15 -- just 10 days before many thousands
gathered in Washington and San Francisco to protest the American occupation of
Iraq -- noted that the bureau "possesses no information indicating that violent
or terrorist activities are being planned as part of these protests" and that
"most protests are peaceful events."

But it pointed to violence at protests against the International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank as evidence of potential disruption. Law enforcement
officials said in interviews that they had become particularly concerned about
the ability of antigovernment groups to exploit demonstrations and promote a
violent agenda.

"What a great opportunity for an act of terrorism, when all your resources are
dedicated to some big event and you let your guard down," a law enforcement
official involved in securing recent demonstrations said. "What would the public
say if we didn't look for criminal activity and intelligence at these events?"

The memorandum urged local law enforcement officials "to be alert to these
possible indicators of protest activity and report any potentially illegal acts"
to counterterrorism task forces run by the F.B.I. It warned about an array of
threats, including homemade bombs and the formation of human chains.

The memorandum discussed demonstrators' "innovative strategies," like the
videotaping of arrests as a means of "intimidation" against the police. And it
noted that protesters "often use the Internet to recruit, raise funds and
coordinate their activities prior to demonstrations."

"Activists may also make use of training camps to rehearse tactics and
counter-strategies for dealing with the police and to resolve any logistical
issues," the memorandum continued. It also noted that protesters may raise money
to help pay for lawyers for those arrested.

F.B.I. counterterrorism officials developed the intelligence cited in the
memorandum through firsthand observation, informants, public sources like the
Internet and other methods, officials said.

Officials said the F.B.I. treats demonstrations no differently than other
large-scale and vulnerable gatherings. The aim, they said, was not to monitor
protesters but to gather intelligence.

Critics said they remained worried. "What the F.B.I. regards as potential
terrorism," Mr. Romero of the A.C.L.U. said, "strikes me as civil disobedience."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             380 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 30, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Chant Not Heard

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 765 words


I stood on the sidewalk in London the other day and watched thousands of
antiwar, anti-George Bush, anti-Tony Blair protesters pass by. They chanted
every antiwar slogan you could imagine and many you couldn't print. It was
entertaining -- but also depressing, because it was so disconnected from the
day's other news.

Just a few hours earlier, terrorists in Istanbul had blown up a British-owned
bank and the British consulate, killing or wounding scores of British and
Turkish civilians. Yet nowhere could I find a single sign in London reading,
"Osama, How Many Innocents Did You Kill Today?" or "Baathists -- Hands Off the
U.N. and the Red Cross in Iraq." Hey, I would have settled for "Bush and Blair
Equal Bin Laden and Saddam" -- something, anything, that acknowledged that the
threats to global peace today weren't just coming from the White House and
Downing Street.

Sorry, but there is something morally obtuse about holding an antiwar rally on a
day when your own people have been murdered -- and not even mentioning it or
those who perpetrated it. Watching this scene, I couldn't help but wonder
whether George Bush had made the liberal left crazy. It can't see anything else
in the world today, other than the Bush-Blair original sin of launching the Iraq
war, without U.N. approval or proof of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction.

Believe me, being a liberal on every issue other than this war, I have great
sympathy for where the left is coming from. And if I didn't, my wife would
remind me. It would be a lot easier for the left to engage in a little postwar
reconsideration if it saw even an ounce of reflection, contrition or
self-criticism coming from the conservatives, such as Dick Cheney and Don
Rumsfeld, who drove this war, yet so bungled its aftermath and so misjudged the
complexity of postwar Iraq. Moreover, the Bush team is such a partisan,
ideological, nonhealing administration that many liberals just want to punch its
lights out -- which is what the Howard Dean phenomenon is all about.

But here's why the left needs to get beyond its opposition to the war and start
pitching in with its own ideas and moral support to try to make lemons into
lemonade in Baghdad:

First, even though the Bush team came to this theme late in the day, this war is
the most important liberal, revolutionary U.S. democracy-building project since
the Marshall Plan. The primary focus of U.S. forces in Iraq today is erecting a
decent, legitimate, tolerant, pluralistic representative government from the
ground up. I don't know if we can pull this off. We got off to an unnecessarily
bad start. But it is one of the noblest things this country has ever attempted
abroad and it is a moral and strategic imperative that we give it our best shot.

Unless we begin the long process of partnering with the Arab world to dig it out
of the developmental hole it's in, this angry, frustrated region is going to
spew out threats to world peace forever. The next six months in Iraq -- which
will determine the prospects for democracy-building there -- are the most
important six months in U.S. foreign policy in a long, long time. And it is way
too important to leave it to the Bush team alone.

On Iraq, there has to be more to the left than anti-Bushism. The senior Democrat
who understands that best is the one not running for president -- Senator Joe
Biden. He understands that the liberal opposition to the Bush team should be
from the right -- to demand that we send more troops to Iraq, and more committed
democracy builders, to do the job better and smarter than the Bush team has.

Second, we are seeing -- from Bali to Istanbul -- the birth of a virulent,
nihilistic form of terrorism that seeks to kill any advocates of modernism and
pluralism, be they Muslims, Christians or Jews. This terrorism started even
before 9/11, and is growing in the darkest corners of the Muslim world. It is
the most serious threat to open societies, because one more 9/11 and we'll
really see an erosion of our civil liberties. Ultimately, only Arabs and Muslims
can root out this threat, but they will do that only when they have ownership
over their own lives and societies. Nurturing thatis our real goal in Iraq.

"In general," says Robert Wright, author of "Nonzero," "too few who opposed the
war understand the gravity of the terrorism problem, and too few who favored it
understand the subtlety of the problem."

For my money, the right liberal approach to Iraq is to say: We can do it better.
Which is why the sign I most hungered to see in London was, "Thanks, Mr. Bush.
We'll take it from here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             381 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dissenting From Disaster in Iraq

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 66 words


To the Editor:

Thomas L. Friedman writes that "there is something morally obtuse about holding
an antiwar rally on a day when your own people have been murdered" (column, Nov.
30).

What better day to hold an antiwar rally?

Rather than being "morally obtuse," the protesters were vigorously exercising
their right to object to this immoral and unnecessary war.

RICHARD ELLIS
New York, Nov. 30, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             382 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 21, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iraqis Again Seek Elections and a Local Trial for Hussein

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Jan. 20


Thousands of Iraqis demonstrated again on Tuesday in four major cities,
demanding that the United States turn over Saddam Hussein to stand trial here
and renewing calls for direct elections as the first step toward self-rule.

The protesters, mainly Shiite Muslims, gathered in central Baghdad, at a square
where a towering statue of Saddam Hussein was torn down by jubilant Iraqis in
April; in Basra, in the south; and in Najaf and Kerbala, two Shiite holy cities.

On Monday as many as 100,000 Shiites flowed through the main arteries of the
capital echoing the call of their most respected leader, Ayatollah Ali
al-Sistani, for direct elections of the Iraqi government, which is to take over
from the American-led civil administration by July 1.

The spate of demonstrations and a suicide-bomb attack in central Baghdad on
Sunday that killed 25 people have heightened the sense of combustibility. On
Tuesday night, a mortar shell landed inside the civil administration's compound,
exploding in the parking lot of a building that houses many offices and some
soldiers.

As many as 5,000 people in Baghdad called Tuesday for Mr. Hussein to be handed
over quickly to Iraq to stand trial as a war criminal. The United States is now
holding him as a prisoner of war, and L. Paul Bremer III, the head of the civil
administration here, reiterated in an interview on Tuesday with CNN in
Washington that Mr. Hussein would be transferred to Iraqi authorities in the
future.

That standing pledge failed to convince the marchers in Baghdad, many of them
followers of Moktada al-Sadr, a young cleric and harsh critic of American
policies in Iraq. Some protesters called for Mr. Hussein's execution.

The broader issue, however, remained the mechanism by which the Americans plan
to turn over authority. The civil administration now plans to relinquish power
to a government chosen by caucuses in Iraq's 18 provinces. The Americans argue
that the timetable is too short for valid elections.

Long denied power under successive imperial and native governments, Iraq's
Shiites, about 60 percent of the population, want direct elections, which they
believe would tilt authority to them.

Against the backdrop of such political tensions, Iraq's external debt was
reduced on Tuesday when the United Arab Emirates said it would forgive most of
the $3.8 billion debt owed by Iraq, The Associated Press reported. The
announcement, made by Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed, crown prince of Abu Dhabi, the
capital of the Emirates, followed a recent visit by former Secretary of State
James A. Baker III, who has been appointed by the Bush administration to
persuade countries to forgive Iraq's prodigious debts.

Iraq owes a total of about $120 billion. Arab countries hold about $80 billion
of the debt, and the so-called Paris Club of industrial nations the remaining
$40 billion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi Shiite Muslims stood atop columns in Baghdad yesterday
during a demonstration in which they demanded a local trial for Saddam Hussein
and a direct parliamentary election instead of caucuses. (Photo by Lynsey
Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             383 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Americas: Haiti: U.S. Urges Americans To Consider Leaving

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 32 words


The State Department said it had moved to reduce its diplomatic presence because
of civil unrest and urged Americans to consider leaving the country. It also
advised Americans to defer travel.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             384 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 13, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Heck, No? Antiwar Voices Persist, Softly

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; NYC

LENGTH: 740 words


THEY stood on Fifth Avenue across from Saks, three women who will probably not
mind being described, however ungallantly, as no longer young. It was they,
after all, who chose to call themselves ''Grandmothers Against the War.''

There they were as the sun faded on Wednesday, holding cardboard placards that
described the human toll of the war in Iraq and demanded an immediate end to the
American occupation. They have been there every Wednesday for the last five
weeks, usually in somewhat larger numbers, said Joan Wile, a songwriter with
four grandchildren.

Taking this genteel form of antiwar protest to the streets was Ms. Wile's idea.
It made sense to her to settle on a part of Midtown heavily trafficked by office
workers, shoppers and sightseers.

''I think it's good for them to see some opposition to Bush,'' she said.
''Especially from old grandmas like us.''

In truth, not many passers-by broke stride to react to Ms. Wile or her
companions, Marjorie Perces and Judith Cartisano. Normally, they get more of a
response, Ms. Wile said -- most of it favorable, though there is no escaping the
occasional raspberry.

The quiet street reaction was emblematic of the antiwar movement in general
these days. It is quite a contrast from a year ago. You will recall that last
Feb. 15, with the invasion of Iraq drawing near, many tens of thousands of
demonstrators rallied near the United Nations, part of a worldwide day of
protest. Nothing since has approached that mass action.

You'd think it might be otherwise, especially now that the original reason for
going to war, Saddam Hussein's supposed arsenal of unconventional weapons,
apparently holds as much water as a clenched fist.

It could be that New Yorkers as a group stand solidly behind the president and
his foreign policy. But somehow, given political realities, that seems unlikely.
Even the hard-charging rightist Bill O'Reilly complained this week about being
misled by the White House.

There has been some protest activity, by venerable groups like the War Resisters
League and Internet-era upstarts like MoveOn.org.

''But obviously that's not as dramatic as putting tens or even hundreds of
thousands of people in the streets,'' said Leslie Cagan, national coordinator of
the antiwar coalition United for Peace and Justice. Then again, ''we're not on
the eve of war,'' Ms. Cagan said. There isn't the sense of urgency that
prevailed a year ago.

Colleen Kelly, a leader of a group called Sept. 11 Families for Peaceful
Tomorrows, said that many protesters felt ''deflated'' once the war began. But
the mood may be shifting again, said Ms. Kelly, whose brother, William H. Kelly
Jr., died in the attack on the World Trade Center.

''It feels like Round 2,'' she said. ''I think there's this new galvanizing for
accountability, for holding them to their word. There's a lot of antiwar
sentiment, but maybe just not the traditional protester who takes to the
streets.''

The streets may not be quiet much longer. A demonstration on the order of last
February's is planned for March 20. That could be a prelude to a summer of
protest as the Republicans hold their national convention here, starting in late
August.

A lot could be on the line. Protest leaders will be tested on their ability to
maintain order in the ranks. The Police Department will surely be tested, too.

MANY New Yorkers feel the police did not do themselves proud last February when
they refused to let demonstrators march and kept many thousands from reaching a
rally on First Avenue.

Spirits were not lightened in April when dozens were arrested in another Midtown
protest, on charges that went nowhere. Yesterday, the Center for Constitutional
Rights said it had sued the department in federal court, and called the arrests
''part of a pattern of N.Y.P.D. harassment.''

Nor do the police score high with civil libertarians for asserting a right to
question arrested protesters about their politics, albeit anonymously. To Donna
Lieberman, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, this
policy is ''intimidating and threatening.''

Important issues, all. At least they were not of immediate concern at the
grandmothers' protest on Fifth Avenue.

Thumbs up from passers-by definitely outnumbered thumbs down, Ms. Wile said.
There was one fellow, though, who pointed a finger at the women and made motions
as if he were firing a gun.

Ms. Cartisano was unfazed. ''His aim was bad,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             385 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 14, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush and Kerry: The War Years

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 100 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Conservatives Shine Spotlight on Kerry's Antiwar Record'' (news article,
Feb. 13):

It is interesting that conservatives are able to dig up a photograph of Jane
Fonda and John Kerry at an antiwar rally in 1970, but have been unable to find
one of George W. Bush reporting for duty with the Alabama National Guard.

The 30-year-old image of Mr. Kerry and Ms. Fonda sitting several rows apart at a
public function is far less troubling than the more recent photograph of Defense
Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld greeting Saddam Hussein in Iraq in 1983.

DANIEL DIMAIO
New Haven, Feb. 13, 2004


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             386 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 22, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Gentler Tactics, a Peaceful Antiwar Protest

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 586 words


By any measure, Saturday's antiwar march and rally went smoothly. Only four
protesters were arrested - three of whom were not even on the march route, the
police said. No officers were reported injured. The rally ended an hour ahead of
schedule.

But the organizers of the event and the Police Department had different ideas
about what made the day so orderly.

The police said it depended on directing the inflow of people to the march, a
job they took upon themselves by posting directions to the rally on the
department's Web site. ''The key was having the correct information out 24 hours
in advance,'' said Paul J. Browne, the deputy commissioner for public
information.

The organizers said there was so little conflict because the police were under
scrutiny after vigorous complaints about the department's handling of an antiwar
rally organized by the same group, United for Peace and Justice, in February
2003. That rally resulted in more than 200 arrests and drew heated criticism of
the crowd-control methods that kept thousands of people from reaching the
demonstration.

This time, the police significantly modified their use of interlocking metal
barricades to control pedestrian traffic. Instead of enclosing people in
four-sided pens to keep them from blocking intersections, they left one side
open, and allowed some midblock access.

Leslie Cagan, the national coordinator for United for Peace and Justice, said a
campaign of phone calls and faxes to Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had pressured the police to make the change.

But while the group objects to the use of metal barricades at all, Ms. Cagan
said, ''We thought that the dynamics of the police were fine yesterday.''

Both sides had said the march through Midtown, followed by a rally on Madison
Avenue, would be a sort of test for the anticipated protests at the Republican
National Convention this summer, and each side was keeping a close eye on the
other.

Despite the success of the day, however, each reserved the right to have
reservations.

William Dobbs, a spokesman for United for Peace and Justice, said the police
were less aggressive about arresting lingerers, pointing out that they actually
escorted a small group that continued to march downtown, without a permit, after
the event.

''The signals from the brass are the key thing,'' he said on Sunday. ''They were
on their best behavior yesterday, but that doesn't mean they'll be on their best
behavior at the R.N.C.''

After a march last March, organizers complained that the police moved too
quickly to disperse a crowd in Washington Square after the event, arresting 91
people. ''Some of them make it seem as if we created problems on March 22 -- and
that was nearly flawless,'' Mr. Dobbs said.

Some protesters complained of being photographed and videotaped at the march on
Saturday by members of the Police Department's Technical Assistance and Response
Unit.

Mr. Browne said that the police videotaped the march from a distance so that
they could monitor it for signs of trouble, and that the technical assistance
officers were there only to document any arrests or violence in order to protect
the police from false accusations.

''No one was being videotaped for participating in the march,'' he said. ''We're
not using it for building dossiers.'' He said the department did not keep the
videotapes and photographs.

But Ms. Cagan said the videotaping of peaceful protesters amounted to what she
called ''the criminalization of dissent.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As confrontations go, the antiwar rally on Madison Avenue on
Saturday was a mild one. Four protesters were arrested -- only one was on the
march route -- and no officers were hurt. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             387 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

We Who Protested

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 170 words



To the Editor:

My 11-  and 8-year-old sons and I read ''From Midtown to Madrid, Tens of
Thousands Peacefully Protest War in Iraq'' (news article, March 21). Having
attended the march in Manhattan, as well as last year's marches, my children and
I could hardy recognize the description of the protesters: ''middle-aged
mothers, tongue-pierced students, veterans and bearded professional
dissenters.''

My older son said, ''What they say is true but only partly true,'' and decided
to rewrite, with the help of his younger brother, your partial description:
''The protesters were mothers and fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers; all
kinds of students; professional men and women; working men and women; men with
and without beards; elderly men and women; disabled people; people from
different faiths and different ethnic backgrounds, speaking different languages
but chanting together: peace, shalom, salaam; children of all ages, holding
signs and protesting for peace in the world.''

MARISA CARRASCO
New York, March 21, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             388 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 21, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

IRAQ GOVERNMENT CONSIDERS USING EMERGENCY RULE

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS and SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: SECURITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 20


Faced with violent resistance even before it has assumed power, Iraq's newly
appointed government is considering imposing a state of emergency that could
involve curfews and a ban on public demonstrations, Iraqi officials said Sunday.

In his first news briefing here, Prime Minister Iyad Allawi offered no details
of what emergency rule might include, only that a committee of cabinet members
had been appointed to consider the issue.

Dr. Allawi, who worked closely with the Central Intelligence Agency in opposing
Saddam Hussein's government in the 1990's, said he would consider ''human rights
principles and international law,'' but made clear that he intended to act
quickly and forcefully against the insurgency, using extraordinary methods if
necessary.

''We will do all we can to strike against enemy forces aiming at harming our
country, and we will not stand by with our hands tied,'' Dr. Allawi said. ''The
Iraqi people are determined to establish a democratic government that provides
freedom and equal rights for all its citizens. We are prepared to fight and, if
necessary, die for the cause.''

Among the places where such measures could be applied include the city of
Falluja, where United States forces have been battling guerrilla fighters for
several weeks, and Sadr City, the restive eastern slum in Baghdad, where three
Iraqis were killed Sunday in confrontations with the First Infantry Division.

Among the emergency rule provisions being considered are a curfew, a ban on
public demonstrations, checkpoints to control public movement and changes to
search and seizure laws, two cabinet members said in separate interviews on
Sunday evening.

It remains unclear whether such measures would bring significant changes in the
lives of ordinary Iraqis. Under the United States-led occupation, occupation and
Iraqi soldiers and security forces have been allowed to conduct raids without
warrants, make arrests without charges, and hold suspects in detention
indefinitely.

If some sort of emergency rule is imposed, it is possible that this situation
could persist. Iraq's new leaders have yet to work out the exact nature of their
cooperation with the American military in the coming months, particularly on
such issues as offensive operations and house-to-house searches.

However, Iraqi officials have often criticized American forces for the way they
have conducted themselves here over the past 15 months. A frequent complaint of
Iraqi leaders is that the Americans often alienate ordinary Iraqis by searching
the wrong homes and detaining the wrong people.

The Iraqi leaders have said they know far better who the insurgents are. The
restoration of sovereignty here on June 30 may give those leaders an opportunity
to take the counterinsurgency in another direction.

Iraq's national security adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, said the potential
measures were prompted by a tide of attacks by ''global terrorists'' as well as
Hussein loyalists who, as he put it, ''will not let the country go through the
transitional process towards democracy peacefully.''

''They will try to derail the political process,'' Mr. Rubaie said. ''It is our
responsibility to protect our people from these terrorists. If you bear all this
in mind, then some sort of exceptional rules, if you like, need to be adopted to
deal with the exceptional circumstances.''

Interior Minister Falah al-Naqib said he hoped that if emergency rule were
imposed, it would happen only in particularly fractious areas and for no more
than two to three weeks at a time. He also hinted at the delicate political
balance that the interim government must strike, between winning the confidence
of ordinary Iraqis and crushing what has already proven to be a powerful armed
resistance.

''We have disturbances in the whole country, but many areas could be controlled
very easily, and others will be a little more difficult,'' Mr. Naqib said. ''But
also we have to work politically with many groups. We don't want to use force
very much. If we have to use it with certain terrorists like Al Qaeda or anyone
else, then we will not hesitate to use it.''

Neither he nor other officials would say when a decision would be made about
emergency rule.

The head of the Iraqi bar association, Kamal Hamdoon Mulla Allaw, said he hoped
that such measures would be imposed only for a short period. Hamza al-Kafi, of
the Iraqi Human Rights Society, said he too hoped that any such measures would
be limited in scope and time and that they would not be used for political
advantage.

As the transfer of sovereignty approaches, insurgents have stepped up attacks on
interim government officials and security forces.

On Sunday morning, the interior minister's house in Samarra was attacked and
four bodyguards were killed. Last Thursday, a car bomb ripped through an army
recruitment center in Baghdad, killing at least 41 people. Dozens of local
officials and many senior members of the government in Baghdad have been
assassinated.

Prime Minister Allawi also announced a significant expansion of the Iraqi Army
and its rededication toward internal threats. The army, which currently has
about 3,000 soldiers, would take control of more than 37,500 troops who make up
the existing Iraqi Civil Defense Corps as part of a new National Guard.

Together with the new Iraqi antiterrorism force now being trained here, the
armed forces available to combat insurgents could total more than 60,000
soldiers.

The decision to use the army against the insurgency represents a change to
American policy, which had intended the force to be directed against foreign
threats and, most important, to be small. American policy makers had wanted to
ensure that the Iraqi Army, which has played a significant role in shaping the
country's political history, could be kept out of domestic politics.

Dr. Allawi acknowledged that concern but said the extraordinary circumstances
presented by the insurgency demanded a special response. He said that for the
''foreseeable future,'' the army would be fighting insurgents, rather than
guarding borders.

''Our army's priority will continue to be national defense,'' he said.
''However, in these difficult times, substantial elements of the army will have
to assist in the struggle against internal threats against national security.''

The reconstitution of the army amounts to another step away from the American
decision of spring 2003 to dissolve the Iraqi Army. That decision has been
roundly criticized, by Dr. Allawi and others, as having contributed to the
insurgency by pushing thousands of young men with military training into
unemployment.

In response to that criticism, American officials announced last month that they
would begin rehiring higher-level army officers who had earlier been banned from
serving in the armed forces.

''Disbanding the Iraqi Army was a big mistake,'' Dr. Allawi said. ''We are
fixing the mistakes of the Americans, aren't we?''

Together, redirecting the army toward internal threats and possibly imposing
emergency rule illustrated the grim choices Dr. Allawi and his cabinet feel they
have to make in their early days in office.

Dr. Allawi said the United States had agreed ''in principle'' to transfer
custody of Iraqis suspected of involvement in the insurgency and for criminal
acts to the Iraqi government after June 30.

He offered a vigorous vision of combating the guerrilla insurgency, which he
said was ''systematically destroying the country.''

''The enemy we are fighting is truly evil,'' he said. ''They have nothing to
offer the Iraqi people except death and destruction.''

He appealed to foreign countries to help protect the United Nations staff
members who would be working in the country to prepare for elections later this
year or early next.

Meanwhile, Moktada al-Sadr, the young Shiite cleric who led an uprising against
the American occupation, has been invited to attend a national conference that
will select a quasi-legislature to advise the interim government, Agence
France-Press reported Sunday.

The invitation appears to be part of a broader effort to bring Mr. Sadr into the
political mainstream. His insurgent force, the Mahdi Army, took heavy losses
from American forces over the past three months, but Mr. Sadr soared in
popularity, according to recent opinion polls.

The council that will be selected during the national conference will have a
wide array of powers, including authority to approve the national budget and to
question ministers.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Iraqi girl yesterday in Buhriz, a village northeast of
Baghdad. The American military has returned security responsibility to local
leaders.
Iraqis with rocket-propelled grenades in front of an image of Ayatollah Muhammad
Sadiq al-Sadr, father of the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr. (Photographs by
Associated Press)
 Prime Minister Iyad Allawi made clear yesterday that he intended to act against
the insurgency in Iraq. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             389 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Protest in Istanbul

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 8

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators burned an effigy of President Bush yesterday as
thousands of anti-NATO protesters converged on the alliance's summit meeting in
Istanbul. Security measures were tight for the meeting, which is to be attended
by 26 leaders. Mr. Bush hopes to woo the alliance for support in Iraq. (Photo by
European Pressphoto Agency)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             390 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Supporters of Cleric Die in Yemen Siege

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: SANA, Yemen, June 27


The government reported Sunday that dozens of supporters of a Shiite rebel
cleric had been killed since June 20 by troops in a siege of the cleric's
mountain stronghold.

Officials said that they had held two days of talks aimed at persuading the
cleric, Hussein al-Houthi, to surrender, but that the government would use force
to defeat him.

People close to Mr. Houthi said the death toll was higher than the 51 reported
by the government, and they put it at about 200. Security officials said seven
police officers had also been killed and five others wounded.

Yemeni authorities believe that Mr. Houthi, a leader of the Zaidi Shiite sect in
the northern province of Sada, is also the leader of the rebel group The
Believing Youth, which has led violent protests against the United States and
Israel at mosques, security officials said.

The Interior Ministry reported Saturday that the government was going after Mr.
Houthi because he had trained militia in secret, cut off roads, and attacked
mosques and preachers in Sada, 150 miles north of Sana, the capital.

Anti-American sentiment is high in the region because of the occupation of Iraq
and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Mr. Houthi has not been accused of having ties to Al Qaeda.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             391 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

City of Immigrants Begins to Find an Identity of Its Own

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Hong Kong Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 27


With green, sloping roofs and overhanging eaves imitating Chinese imperial and
temple architecture, the sprawling King Yin Lei Mansion is one of this city's
best-known landmarks. It has been the setting for Hollywood classics like ''Love
is a Many-Splendored Thing,'' starring William Holden, and ''Soldier of
Fortune,'' starring Clark Gable.

Down the hill and around a corner stands the Wan Chai Market, one of two
Bauhaus-inspired fresh-food markets known to survive in Asia. Built in the late
1930's, like the mansion, the market has harmoniously curving walls free of
ornamentation, and has been a hub of the densely packed Wan Chai neighborhood
ever since.

Though each building is beautiful in its own way, neither would have been likely
to survive the wrecking ball if developers had tried to tear them down just a
few years ago.

But when developers made moves recently to raze the mansion and the market, they
encountered fierce resistance from neighborhood activists; the mansion was
pulled off the market last Tuesday, and will remain a private home, while the
market's future is still being contested.

The struggle over historic preservation, in a city where only 4 percent of the
homes were built before 1960, shows a new sense of identity in Hong Kong. A
pride and sense of community is emerging in what has been a city of immigrants.
This sense of identity is manifesting itself in everything from a new interest
in old buildings to a willingness to call for free elections.

Yeung Fai, 30, sells bok choi, a Chinese cabbage, and other vegetables in the
market at the same stall that his family has operated for 40 years. Mr. Yeung
said that before Britain turned Hong Kong over to China in 1997, he thought of
himself as Chinese, in contrast to the Europeans running the city.

But now that China is in charge, Mr. Yeung sees himself differently. ''I feel
proud of Hong Kong, and of being a Hong Kong person,'' he said.

That sentiment seems to be spreading among this territory's nearly seven million
people, a population a little larger than Switzerland's. The stirrings of a
local identity -- no one here dares call it a national identity -- has nourished
this city's democracy movement, which plans another huge march on Thursday. And
it has unnerved Beijing, which sees parallels to the much more developed
movement in Taiwan, which wants the island to declare formal independence.

Last Friday, China's Foreign Ministry denounced the Senate's passage in
Washington of a resolution supporting democratic reforms here as interference in
China's internal affairs.

While mainland officials recently said Hong Kong would be included in new
legislation being drafted to ban secession, and have warned against any advocacy
of independence, there is virtual unanimity in Hong Kong that independence would
be both impractical and impossible for a peninsula and scattering of islands
with a combined land area half that of Luxembourg.

Unlike Taiwan, Hong Kong lacks 100 miles of sea separating it from the mainland,
or an unspoken security guarantee from the United States to limit Beijing
officials' actions here. Much of Hong Kong's fresh water and food come across
from the mainland every day.

But while independence may not be the goal, loyalty to Hong Kong is clearly
growing among its residents, with consequences that are hard to predict.

The British were fond of portraying Hong Kong as little more than a barren rock
before they captured it in 1841. Yet there were fishing and trading villages and
even some fortifications when the British arrived, while human habitation went
back at least 6,000 years. This history is seized upon here as evidence that
Hong Kong has had a long cultural and political tradition and is more than just
a center of commerce.

When another mansion near downtown seemed doomed this spring to be torn down to
make room for a skyscraper, public protests forced the government to buy the
building and convert it into a museum. The museum will describe the history of
Sun Yat-sen, the revolutionary who developed many of his ideas in Hong Kong a
century ago before overthrowing China's monarchy.

Hong Kong's population has grown tenfold since the end of World War II, mostly
from people fleeing Communism on the mainland. One popular theory for why local
pride is emerging now is that many assumed in the years leading up to Britain's
handing the colony back that they would have to move elsewhere when the People's
Liberation Army arrived.

Now they have concluded that it is safe to remain and take a longer-term
interest in their homes. ''People realize it's where they live, it's where
they're going to stay,'' said Jason Wordie, a local historian.

Paul Yip, a 61-year-old former adviser to Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief
executive, perceives a generational split. Old age is claiming an earlier,
pro-China generation that either emigrated from the mainland or grew up with the
anticolonial sentiments that remained common here at least into the 1960's.

At the same time, local schools increasingly portray Hong Kong as part of China,
so today's children may have a sense of Chinese nationalism. But stuck in the
middle is a broad segment of society, ages 18 to 55, that is struggling for an
identity and now finding it in Hong Kong's traditions.

Yet for all the growing enthusiasm for the past, there remains an appreciation
of the benefits of the present. Vendors in the Wan Chai Market were divided one
recent morning about the building's future.

Old hands, inured to the humid tropical heat in a building with nothing more
than fans for ventilation, wanted to save it. Younger workers spoke
enthusiastically of the government's promise to build a new, air-conditioned
market next door if the current one was torn down.

Near a butcher's stall, where a large rat scurried back and forth repeatedly,
Mr. Yeung wanted to have it both ways. ''The government should move us,'' he
said, ''but keep this building for the tourists.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hong Kong residents are taking more pride in their city, as is
evident in efforts to save historic buildings like the King Yin Lei Mansion.
(Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             392 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 1, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Barred by Israel as Security Risk, Pro-Palestinian American Refuses to Go

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 30


A New Yorker who flew to Israel to take part in pro-Palestinian marches was
denied entry and ordered expelled, and she has spent the past week in Israeli
custody at the airport while fighting the deportation order, her lawyer said
Wednesday.

The woman, Ann Petter, 44, a graphic designer, arrived at Ben-Gurion
International Airport outside Tel Aviv on June 23 and was immediately detained
by Israeli authorities, according to her lawyer, Shamai Leibowitz.

The Israelis declared her a security threat because of her involvement with an
organization called the International Solidarity Movement, a pro-Palestinian
group that organizes frequent protests, Mr. Leibowitz said. He said she had come
to Israel to join marches arranged by the group, which often demonstrates in
opposition to Israel's construction of its West Bank separation barrier and the
demolition of Palestinian homes.

Israel says members of the group consistently interfere with operations being
carried out by the Israeli security forces, and thereby make tense situations
even more dangerous. Two members of the group have been killed by the military
in the course of Israeli incursions into the Gaza Strip since March of last
year.

Ms. Petter is free to leave Israel, but she has chosen to oppose the deportation
order, Mr. Leibowitz said, adding that she has remained in custody while
awaiting a court hearing expected in Tel Aviv sometime in the next few days. The
lawyer said he had obtained a temporary injunction barring Israel from deporting
Ms. Petter.

She could have gone home on the same plane she arrived on, said Tova Ellinson, a
spokeswoman for Israel's Interior Ministry. But she appealed to the court, so
now she has to wait.

Ms. Ellinson said Ms. Petter was denied entry for security reasons, but declined
to discuss details of the case.

Mr. Leibowitz said Israel was barring entry to people associated with the
International Solidarity Movement, a group made up mostly of young Americans and
Europeans.

Ms. Petter visited the region and took part in the group's protests last summer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             393 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Admitting Mistakes About the War

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 74 words



To the Editor:

You admit that you participated in ''groupthink'' by accepting the premise that
Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction.

This self-criticism is healthy. Now you should acknowledge that a broad-based
antiwar movement, whose huge New York demonstration The Times relegated to
cursory coverage, was engaging in precisely the sort of critical thinking you
wish you had exercised.

MICHAEL BLAINE
Jefferson, N.Y., July 16, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             394 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 22, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesters Accept a Stage Distant From G.O.P. Ears

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 713 words


The group planning the largest protest during the Republican National Convention
agreed yesterday to hold a giant rally along the West Side Highway, acceding to
the demands of the Bloomberg administration, which opposed the group's effort to
demonstrate in Central Park.

''We are not happy about this,'' said Leslie Cagan, national coordinator for
United for Peace and Justice, an antiwar umbrella group. ''The clock is ticking;
we need to move on,'' she added. ''So, we decided to take the high road here.''

More than a year ago, the group began seeking a permit for 250,000 people to
rally on the Great Lawn in Central Park on Aug. 29, the day before the
convention begins. But the Parks Department rejected that site, saying that the
area could not hold that many people and that a huge rally would damage the
lawn.

Instead, police officials suggested that demonstrators mass somewhere between
14th and 23rd Streets on Seventh Avenue. From there, they could march north past
Madison Square Garden, where the convention will be held, head west on 34th
Street to 12th Avenue and then south along the highway to around Chambers
Street, where a soundstage for the rally would be set up. Protest organizers and
police officials estimate the crowd could stretch as far north as 34th Street.

Protest organizers originally balked at that plan. But in accepting the city's
offer yesterday after failed attempts to sway the administration, they conceded
that they had been outflanked by officials, who delivered a public ultimatum
last week to accept the Hudson River site or take the city to court, which could
have led to a long battle with an uncertain outcome.

''In terms of the rally location, we got nothing,'' Ms. Cagan said, adding that
she hoped the raft of public support for a rally in the park would somehow
benefit the group in gaining other concessions from the city. ''We have a body
of experience, we actually know what we're talking about when we go into these
meetings,'' she said. ''That should help.''

But the acceptance of the highway proposal now brings to the forefront a host of
details officials and organizers must hash out.

Chief among them is where officials would place an emergency vehicle lane, how
barricades will be configured and how people will be able to join or leave the
protest. In addition, organizers say they are concerned about the use of
surveillance video cameras and police helicopters, which can make it difficult
for demonstrators to hear.

Organizers have asked that the city consider helping to defray the cost of
equipment, which Ms. Cagan said would run at least $150,000 more than it would
have in Central Park. In addition, organizers are asking the city to help
provide access to things like water and transportation, since the new location
is far from mass transit and lacks the shade of Central Park.

''If the weather on August 29th is anything like what it was like today, then
water is actually a public health issue and a public safety issue,'' Ms. Cagan
said, adding that her group would like to discuss these questions directly with
the mayor's office, which has thus far delegated the negotiations to the Police
Department.

Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, said the police were
''proceeding now with the details to accommodate a safe and peaceful
demonstration, including the deployment of barriers as appropriate.'' He added,
''The amenities cited by the organizers are customarily supplied by the
demonstrators or organizers themselves.''

And there was little indication from the mayor's office that the custom was
likely to change. ''We're not in the business of providing lunches or sound
systems or transportation for permitted events,'' said Edward Skyler, the
mayor's press secretary. ''I think they see some sort of political value in
having the city tell them no, so they keep coming up with preposterous
demands.''

Organizers have argued that the city is providing amenities like free MetroCards
to the Republican delegates, but Mr. Skyler said they were being paid for with
private donations.

If the protesters ''want to find corporate sponsors for their protests, let them
go ahead,'' he said. ''New Yorkers shouldn't have to see their tax dollars spent
on subsidizing protests.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             395 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 28, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Peace Signs Versus Other Gestures

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME.

E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: Middletown, N.Y.


ABOUT the time that the Democrats' big show was starting in Boston, the tiny one
that plays out every Monday night at 7 was starting in Middletown.

At best, it's five people, Mary and Bob Reader, Dottie and Greg Winner and Wayne
Umstetter from Port Jervis. At worst it's just Mrs. Reader and her golden
retriever, Sam.

Monday it was the Readers, the Winners and the Readers' 12-year-old
granddaughter, Victoria, from New Jersey (Mr. Umstetter's car broke down) who
showed up at the fireman's memorial plaza, nearby sidewalks all but deserted, to
protest the war. They gathered as always, under the statue of a fireman in
vintage garb holding a child, to display their signs and banners for the steady
trickle of drivers who passed by.

There are more propitious places to turn out. Middletown is a struggling,
heavily black and Hispanic center in largely Republican Orange County. After
doing this every Monday, in snowstorms and downpours, in winter and summer,
since February 2003, the group has probably been seen by every resident who
ventures in or near downtown. And the war in Iraq has gone from a gathering
storm to familiar background noise, like the baseball scores or stock market
reports.

But sometimes doing something, anything, feels better than doing nothing, so
they've managed to make their weekly vigil as much a part of their life as some
people make church on Sunday or a Thursday night bridge game.

''The war's still going on, so we're still here,'' said Mrs. Reader, 67, a
retired teacher, who was holding a sign with a dove and the words, ''War Is Not
the Answer.'' ''Even if it's for a half-hour every week, it's important for us
to be here, to remind people that the war is still going on, that people are
still dying.''

The group, members of the Orange County Peace and Justice Coalition, got
involved during the run-up to the war in the fall of 2002 and have kept at it,
while some other protests have petered out.

It's a conservative county, but welcoming honks of approval are more common than
the rare rude gesture. The protesters figure any response is a good thing.

Mr. Reader, 68, a retired minister and part-time professor who was carrying a
peace banner he bought at a kite shop in Ocean City, Md., cited a couple in a
red truck who passed by recently.

The man, he said, looked out somewhat disdainfully and said something to the
woman, which, he thought, set off a conversation about the vigil. Of course, the
couple could both have said ''What fools,'' or ''Thank God they're there,'' or,
for that matter, ''Let's go to McDonald's,'' but he preferred to sense something
more.

''If we cause people to think, to raise questions, we've accomplished a great
deal,'' Mr. Reader said.

IT seems a slim reed, particularly in a country where big-box stores and media
extravaganzas count for more than mom-and-pop shops or protests. But at a time
when about half of the people eligible actually vote in presidential elections,
the networks are barely carrying the convention in Boston and the ratings are
dismal for those that do, the protesters figure that every bit matters.

''When the war started, it seemed so obviously wrong, you wanted to do
something,'' Mrs. Winner said. ''People feel so powerless. It's like the Romans
with bread and circuses. Go shopping, like George Bush says. Don't pay any
attention to what's going on. Well, I want to pay attention.''

They were about ready to pack it in when Thomas Serrano rode up on his bicycle.
He stopped and glared.

''You got sons or daughters in the military?'' he asked. ''This is a bunch of
bull. I was in the Navy for six years, and when they say you go, you go. If it's
your time to die, you die. That's the way it is.''

What ensued was something like a pillow fight in the dark, with Mr. Serrano, 39,
not quite defending the war, but not remotely convinced there was a point to
protesting it. ''The government's been screwed up since the beginning of time,''
he said. ''All wars are going to be for oil or some dumb bull. I think we should
blow everyone out of there like they did to us in the twin towers.''

Still, the more they talked, the less they argued, and by the end, they wished
each other well. Mr. Serrano pedaled off, and the vigil crew, feeling like it
had been well worth a half-hour of their time, packed up their signs and banners
and headed off until next Monday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             396 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 17, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Behavior May Cost Protesters 'Privileges,' Bloomberg Says

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 556 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told a group of volunteers who plan to toil at the
Republican National Convention yesterday that he expected most protesters who
come to the event later this month would ''be reasonable,'' but he warned that
''if we start to abuse our privileges, then we lose them.''

Coincidentally, his remarks followed a protest by a small group of police
officers who were told to move away from the doorway of John Jay College of
Criminal Justice in Manhattan or risk arrest. The group was there awaiting the
mayor's arrival to address and thank the volunteers.

Mr. Bloomberg has been battling two disparate groups of protesters over the last
few weeks: police and fire union officials, who have been trailing him at his
public events and yelling at him to give them a raise, and antiwar protesters,
who have been wrangling with the city over where they can stage a large
demonstration the day before the convention, which will be held Aug. 30 to Sept.
2.

In recent days, as each group has gotten more aggressive, Mr. Bloomberg has been
forced to address them in his public remarks as he goes about the city. Last
week, during a briefing with police officials on the convention, Mr. Bloomberg
suggested that antiwar protesters be mindful of American troops in Iraq.

When asked later if he meant that protesters were being unpatriotic, Mr.
Bloomberg said he did not. ''If you think the war is wrong you should say so,''
he said, adding that his point was that ''we have freedoms that most other
people do not have,'' including the right to protest.

Yesterday, a small group of police officers were reminded of the limitations
they face when they stood outside the college waiting for Mr. Bloomberg to
arrive, and handed out leaflets while blocking the entrance.

After being asked to move several times, the leader of the group, Walter Liddy,
was told he would be arrested if he did not move to a penned-in area near the
school. ''I almost got arrested for exercising our civil rights,'' Mr. Liddy
said.

Mr. Liddy seemed perplexed when asked if he had anything in common with the
group that has been battling the city over its protest site the Sunday before
the convention begins. ''Because they're protesters and because they have a
gripe,'' Mr. Liddy said, he saw some parallels, but added that their issues were
very different.

That group, United for Peace and Justice, has repeatedly requested the right to
protest on Central Park's Great Lawn and have been rejected each time by the
city's Parks Department, whose officials say the lawn cannot handle the
250,000-odd protesters the city expects at their rally. The city offered the
group the West Side Highway, which it accepted at one point but subsequently
rejected last week.

Both the antiwar protesters and some of the police officers who could be
assigned to watch over them used the same language to respond to the mayor's
remarks about free speech being a privilege that can be lost.

''I never understood the rights guaranteed by the First Amendment were a
privilege,'' said Leslie Cagan, national coordinator for United for Peace and
Justice, ''I don't know why he is framing it that way.''

Mr. Liddy echoed that thought: ''Unless the mayor paid someone to rewrite the
Constitution.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             397 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing  New York: Bronx: Activist Defies Ban On Housing Protesters

BYLINE: By Colin Moynihan (NYT); Compiled by George James

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 128 words


A leader of a Mott Haven community center said yesterday that he would defy a
court order forbidding him to house political demonstrators during the
Republican National Convention. Last week, Justice Patricia Williams of State
Supreme Court ordered Rafael Bueno, left, to bar visitors from staying in a
five-story building whose ownership is in dispute. Mr. Bueno's lawyer, Harry
Kresky, said yesterday that he was opposing the transfer of title by the city's
Department of Housing Preservation and Development to a residential developer
last April on grounds that area zoning does not allow residential development.
About 20 demonstrators from out of town began sleeping in the building after Mr.
Bueno announced recently that they were welcome.   Colin Moynihan (NYT)


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             398 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 28, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Hurt in Athens Protest of Powell's Visit

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS; Joe Drape, Juliet Macur and Anthee Carassava contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: OLYMPICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: ATHENS, Aug. 27


At least three people were injured on Friday when police fired tear gas and
sparred with rock-throwing demonstrators during a rally to protest the planned
weekend visit of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.

The anti-American protest was the first disturbance to mar the Summer Olympics
in Athens, where Greek authorities and NATO have mobilized sea, air and land
forces to guard against terrorist attacks.

The heart of Athens was closed for about three hours as an estimated 2,000
people, shouting slogans against the war in Iraq and globalization, faced off
with Greek Special Forces troops who blocked them from marching on the American
Embassy.

The protest was centered at the Greek Parliament building, about six miles from
the main Olympic stadium. It did not reach the heavily guarded embassy, where
more Special Forces troops armed with tear gas canisters were waiting, or the
main sporting events.

Mr. Powell was expected to arrive late Saturday in Athens and to attend the
closing ceremony on Sunday. At the opening ceremony, former President George
Bush and President Bush's daughters, Jenna and Barbara, represented the United
States.

A spokesman for the Ministry of Public Order said that at least three people had
been hospitalized with injuries from thrown rocks and bottles, but that no
arrests were made.

Protests against the United States have been a perennial feature of Greek public
life for decades. Large crowds have turned out over the past year and a half to
demonstrate against the American-led invasion and occupation of Iraq, and many
of the protests have been led by prominent politicians and government officials.

Although there have been no overt snubs of American fans, an undercurrent of
anti-American sentiment and suspicion has broken to the surface several times
since the start of the Games. The American men's volleyball team and their
Olympic boxers were booed and jeered over the past week by the largely Greek
crowds in the stadiums.

In newspapers and on the radio, Greek commentators have also suggested openly
that an American-inspired conspiracy was somehow responsible for the doping
scandals that have enveloped several of the country's best-loved athletes. Some
have also started blaming the United States for the extraordinary security
requirements of the Olympics. Greek officials have said they will spend at least
$1.2 billion on surveillance systems, specialized computers and other equipment
to secure the Games. The government has also mobilized nearly 100,000 soldiers,
police officers and other security forces.

The protest on Friday evening had been announced in advance and organized by
several groups that had previously led antiwar and antiglobalization rallies.
Police officials also had announced in advance that the march would not be
permitted outside the central business district around Syntagma Square.

The marchers set out just before sunset, first snaking around central Athens,
shouting and banging on drums, before running up against barricades of police
officers standing four deep across the main streets leading away from the
square.

The crowd of mostly young people chanted and called out insults of Mr. Powell
for about half an hour, when a group of young men dressed in black, with
bandanas over their faces, suddenly pulled rocks and bottles from bags they were
carrying and smashed the surveillance cameras on nearby buildings.

The police responded with tear gas, scattering the main body of protesters, as a
small group overturned trash cans, broke flower pots, ripped down Olympic
banners and smashed the windows of a bank and several stores before escaping
into the side streets.

Yiannis Sifakakis, one of the organizers of the demonstration, later blamed a
small number of agitators for provoking the violence.

''There were some of us who tried to hold out against a confrontation,'' he
said. ''But there were others who wanted a symbolic scrape with the police. When
that happened, anarchists pushed their way into the crowds and caused these
scuffles.''

Anarchist groups have been blamed in the past for setting off small bombs near
police stations and disrupting other public rallies.

The demonstration did not interrupt the scheduled sporting events at the Olympic
stadium, where the final track and field competitions were under way during the
protest.

A small group of the marchers wore the multicolored polo shirts that identified
them as Olympic volunteers, some of the thousands of people staffing stadiums,
transportation hubs and security checkpoints for the summer. They marched under
a banner that read, ''Volunteers Against Iraq Policy.''

''We have no problems with the American people we have met here,'' said Tasos
Dargiotis, 21, one of the volunteers. ''But American foreign policy is wrong,
and Colin Powell is a powerful symbol of that.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antiwar protesters clashed with the police in Athens yesterday.
Tear gas was used to prevent them from reaching the United States Embassy.
(Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)Map of Greece highlighting Athens
and site of confrontation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             399 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Upstaging Before the Show

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN
NEW YORK -- NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words


In a few dozen blocks of the same slender island, two worlds collided yesterday:
the Republican convention's calculated claims to patriotism and the presidency
met elaborately planned and heavily Democratic street protests that turned those
same arguments back at President Bush -- in ways that might help, or hurt, both
sides.

The demonstrations were New York City's biggest in decades, and the most
emphatic at any national political convention since Democrats and demonstrators
turned against each other in fury over Vietnam in Chicago in 1968. But the first
day was overwhelmingly peaceful, and the demonstrators doused a good bit of Mr.
Bush's intended message with television images of dissent.

''New York certainly is an exciting city,'' Brad Freeman, a delegate from Los
Angeles and one of Mr. Bush's old friends and longtime fund-raisers, said in one
of the milder understatements since Peter Minuit bought Manhattan for the Dutch.
''We'll have to wait until Friday to see what kind of a city it is for a
Republican convention.''

This was not the reception the Republicans had planned. They chose New York to
evoke the moment of national unity that rallied Americans to Mr. Bush after the
Sept. 11 attacks, only to find protesters claiming Mr. Bush had forfeited that
goodwill by attacking Iraq. The marchers carried placards calling Mr. Bush ''the
next Milosevic'' and demanding, ''What would Jesus bomb?''

The Republicans stuck to their script in the face of the flak, hoping that if
they can make it here -- for at least four days -- they can make it anywhere.
Vice President Dick Cheney arrived at Ellis Island, opposite the gaping hole in
the Manhattan skyline, and praised Mr. Bush as ''a man calm in a crisis,
comfortable with responsibility and determined to do everything necessary to
protect our people.''

And some of the delegates suggested that the protests would backfire to Mr.
Bush's benefit, by painting Senator John Kerry -- whose sister, Peggy, joined
some of the weekend's events -- as captive to demonstrators outside the
mainstream.

''I left God's country,'' said Leon Mosley of Waterloo, Iowa, co-chairman of his
state party. ''They could use a bunch of people from Iowa to come here to show
New Yorkers what life is all about, what being patriotic is all about, and what
country is all about. I'm as confident about Bush being re-elected as I am that
eggs are going to be in New York tomorrow morning.''

But some veteran conventiongoers suggested that the Republicans would be unwise
to count their chickens just yet. In their own outspoken way, the protesters
were making precisely the same point as Mr. Mosley, with children in strollers,
grandparents on canes, all accepting the withering Sunday heat -- and the
overwhelming security presence intended to keep the march past Madison Square
Garden orderly.

''I've been going to Republican conventions since 1972, and I've never seen a
convention with as many protesters in the streets,'' said David Gergen, who has
worked for several Republican presidents, and Bill Clinton. ''The irony is that
was a convention held here because of echoes of 9/11, but it opens with echoes
of Chicago and the Vietnam war.

''The protests are anti-Bush, with heavy antiwar overtones, but this is Chicago
without the fisticuffs, without the fight, without the bloodshed -- so far,''
Mr. Gergen added. ''To interpret this politically is hard, but my gut is that
large, peaceful protests are not what the Republicans want. The protesters are
stealing the story for the first day and drowning out the Republican message. If
there's violence, that could all change.''

To be sure, a seething anger pulsed throughout the protesting crowds. T-shirts
and signs branded Mr. Bush a warmonger, a liar or a criminal, and there were
fly-swatters with an image of his face. Two protesters, Jim Higgins and Kathy
Roberts, dressed in suits made of duct tape to spoof Mr. Bush's handling of
national security.

''We're occupying Iraq, but we're using duct tape here at home,'' Mr. Higgins
said.

Moira Weidenborner, an English teacher and native New Yorker, sat on the corner
of 14th Street and Seventh Avenue before the march began, straw hat in hand, in
a shirt that said: ''Justice, No War.'' She said the people she had met on the
streets were ''a very broad spectrum.''

''There's all this attention on the radicals, which makes me upset,'' Ms.
Weidenborner said. ''Look around you today: It is middle class, it is working
class, it is just people who want to speak their mind.''

But Jason Glodt, executive director of the South Dakota Republican Party, said
he thought the protesters did ''reflect the base of the Democratic Party,'' and
added: ''I hope that all Americans are taking a close look at those protesters
and what they represent. I don't think they represent American values.

''It's not their freedom of speech that we disagree with,'' Mr. Glodt said,
''it's the content of what they're saying. It really only motivates us even more
to go home and work harder at the grass-roots level and make sure people are
going out and voting.''

A certain clash of cultures is inevitable when so much of red-state America
crams into so few square miles of the blue-state Big Apple. The White House was
so concerned that the Republicans be gracious guests that it issued a stern
warning to administration officials attending the convention not to misbehave at
cocktail parties and turn down gifts worth more than $20, The Chicago Tribune
reported.

For its part, the city's host committee plastered the Garden with posters
reminding delegates that New York has 18,000 restaurants, 662 miles of subway
track, 150 museums and 1,700 parks -- in short, that it's still a helluva town.
And the contrasts were by no means all hostile.

On the empty floor of the Garden Sunday afternoon, Senator George Allen of
Virginia, a stalwart of his party's conservative wing, gamely practiced his
convention speech, competing genially with a troupe of convention performers who
burst into songs from Broadway shows, including ''Tonight'' from ''West Side
Story,'' a collaboration by four gay men, New Yorkers -- and Americans -- all.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a rally yesterday on Ellis Island with Gov. George E. Pataki
of New York, left, and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Vice President Dick
Cheney focused on Sept. 11 and the state of national security now. (Photo by
Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Coffins representing soldiers who have died in the Iraq war were part of the
protests yesterday along Broadway near 23rd Street. (Photo by Michelle V.
Agins/The New York Times)(pg. P10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             400 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Malaysian High Court Voids Conviction of Ex-Deputy Premier

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Sept. 2


The high court in Malaysia overturned the sodomy conviction of former Deputy
Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim on Thursday and allowed him to go free after
serving six years in prison.

The decision, which took many Malaysians and officials in surrounding countries
by surprise, was the clearest sign yet of a new era since Prime Minister
Abdullah Badawi's election victory six months ago.

Mr. Anwar, who attended the court session on Thursday in a wheelchair and a neck
brace because of a serious back condition, was abruptly fired in 1998 by the
Malaysian leader at the time, Mahathir Mohamad, over differences about how to
handle the Asian financial crisis.

Soon afterward, Mr. Anwar was arrested, tried and convicted on sodomy and
corruption charges in what the deputy prime minister's supporters interpreted as
personal revenge by Dr. Mahathir against the man who was his likely successor.

Mr. Anwar, 57, emerged Thursday morning from the courtroom in Putrajaya, the
Malaysian administrative capital, with a shout of ''Reformasi!'' the rallying
cry of the demonstrators who supported him against Dr. Mahathir in 1998.

''Thank God it's over,'' Mr. Anwar said. ''I have to give credit to the new
prime minister for not interfering with judiciary. I appeal to Prime Minister
Abdullah Badawi to make the necessary reforms.''

Surrounded by several hundred supporters, Mr. Anwar then went to his father's
home. He planned to apply for a new passport on Friday so he could go to Germany
for surgery, according to his lawyer, Sankara Nair.

Mr. Anwar's health is ''very bad,'' because of a back condition that has put his
''spine in jeopardy,'' Mr. Nair said.

After losing two earlier appeals, Mr. Anwar's legal team argued the appeal
before the federal high court in April, Mr. Nair said. ''This was the final
appeal,'' he said.

A leading Malaysian newspaper columnist, Karim Raslan, said the ruling on
Thursday represented the end of what had been a nightmare on the Malaysian
political conscience. ''A lot of people were deeply disturbed by the treatment
of Anwar,'' Mr. Raslan said. He added that Mr. Abdullah had shown
professionalism by allowing the court to make its decision without interference.

The decision, by a three-judge panel, was welcomed by the United States. ''It
was gratifying to see that justice has now been served,'' the United States
Embassy said in a statement.

Mr. Anwar began serving a nine-year sentence on sodomy charges in 2000. His
six-year sentence on corruption charges ended last year after he was given
one-year reduction for good behavior.

Mr. Anwar's arrest in 1998 soured relations between the Clinton administration
and Malaysia, especially after Vice President Al Gore rebuked Dr. Mahathir and
championed the cause of the former deputy prime minister and his supporters.

At a meeting of Pacific Rim leaders in Kuala Lumpur in 1998, Mr. Gore said
Malaysia needed more reforms like those proposed by Mr. Anwar, who at the time
was on trial.

For that censure and for other reasons, Dr. Mahathir maintained a solid wall of
criticism against the United States until his retirement last October after 22
years in office.

Mr. Abdullah, who took over as prime minister last November and then won his own
electoral mandate in March, patched up relations with a visit to Washington this
summer. He told President Bush that he would be prepared to send a team of
Malaysian medics to Iraq.

Soon after Mr. Anwar was freed Thursday, Mr. Abdullah said the court's ruling
had been made purely on legal merits. ''Those who want to rejoice or whatever
they want to do must also understand the law,'' he said.

While few could challenge the prime minister's statement that the court ruling
had not been influenced by politics, the sudden release of Mr. Anwar buoyed the
Malaysian stock market. Analysts said the release would reverberate well among
foreign investors.

In their ruling, the appellate judges decided 2 to 1 that the evidence used to
convict Mr. Anwar of sodomy was unreliable. The prosecution's chief witness,
Azizan Abu Bakar, a driver for Mr. Anwar's wife, changed the dates on which he
alleged that Mr. Anwar had committed sexual acts with him.

''We don't think it is safe to convict based on his evidence alone,'' Judge
Abdul Hamid said of the driver's testimony. ''We are not prepared to uphold the
conviction.''

The question uppermost in many minds in Kuala Lumpur, the official capital, on
Thursday was whether Mr. Anwar, who is considered a canny politician, could
still make a comeback in opposition to the governing party. His arrest and his
sentencing set off demonstrations against the Mahathir government.

His lawyer, Mr. Nair, said he expected that Mr. Anwar would want to rest after
his operation before deciding on his future.

Prime Minister Abdullah built on his election victory by encouraging an opening
of the economy and calling on Malaysians to show the world that their country
could show a moderate face of Islam.

Although he is viewed as a consensus politician, many supporters of the
governing party remember that it was Mr. Abdullah who, as Dr. Mahathir's foreign
minister, criticized Mr. Gore for what he called interference in Malaysia's
domestic affairs.

Whatever policy differences may have existed between Mr. Abdullah and Mr. Anwar
then, they are likely to be much more muted now. Noordin Sopiee, chairman of the
Institute for Strategic and International Studies in Kuala Lumpur, said it would
probably be difficult for Mr. Anwar to make a comeback.

''Politics in Malaysia is merciless,'' he said. ''Once you're out of circulation
you can't make a comeback.''

Dr. Mahathir remained defiant.

''My conscience is clear,'' the former prime minister said after the court's
announcement. ''As far as I am concerned, I'm convinced that what I know is
right. I still believe he is guilty.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anwar Ibrahim, center, with supporters after his conviction on
sodomy charges was overturned yesterday. (Photo by Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             401 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 13, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Crash, and the Scent of Pizzatocracy, Anger Okinawa

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Ginowan Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 951 words

DATELINE: GINOWAN, Okinawa, Sept. 12


For years, Okinawans have tolerated the deafening thud-thud of United States
Marine Corps cargo helicopters over schools, playing fields and apartment
buildings near the fence of one of the busiest military airfields of the Western
Pacific.

Some shrugged when one helicopter spiraled from the sky on Aug. 13, banging into
a university building, its rotor gouging a concrete wall, its fuselage exploding
into an orange fireball. Miraculously for this congested city of 90,000, no one
was killed, and the only people injured were the three American crew members.

But what really galvanized residents of this sultry tropical island were images
of young American marines closing the crash site to Japanese police detectives,
local political leaders and diplomats from Tokyo, but waving through
pizza-delivery motorcycles.

One month after the crash, that fast-food delivery image -- part truth, part
urban myth -- was strong enough to help to draw about 30,000 people on Sunday
for the biggest anti-base protest in Okinawa since those a decade ago protesting
the rape of a 12-year-old schoolgirl by three American servicemen.

In the sea of parasols, sun hats, balloons and banners, Chikako Oguma, a high
school teacher, sat on the main soccer field of Okinawa International
University. She said she had rummaged through her drawers to find an anti-United
States protest shirt that she had not worn for years.

''At first when the accident happened, I did not get angry,'' Ms. Oguma said,
shading herself under a parasol. ''But then I learned that Japanese police could
not enter the area. At that time I felt Okinawa is really occupied by the U.S.,
that it is not part of Japan.''

''Tokyo doesn't care; Mr. Koizumi didn't come,'' she said, referring to Japan's
prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi. ''He was too busy last month watching the
Olympic Games to see our governor. I feel a gap between Tokyo and here.''

Indeed, beneath the overnight surge of anti-American feeling is a surge of
regionalism in Japan's southernmost islands, an archipelago known until the
1870's as the independent Kingdom of the Ryukus.

''Go back to Japan,'' was an insult thrown at soldiers of the Japanese
Self-Defense Force, seen as deferring to the Americans running the crash site.

''The behavior of the soldiers was really shocking,'' said Kelly Dietz, a
Cornell University doctoral candidate in sociology who lives near the base,
referring to the Americans. ''I saw marines pushing people back, covering news
cameras with their caps, pushing cameras down.''

Ms. Dietz, whose apartment is near where the helicopter's tail rotor landed,
recalled watching a group of marines blocking access to a group of senior
Okinawa police detectives.

''People were getting very angry, they were shouting, 'What country are we
in?''' recalled Ms. Dietz, who took part in the protest on Sunday.

But while the protesters marched outside, frustration reigned inside the fence
of Marine Air Station Futenma. The American marines were angry that no one gave
credit to the pilots who had wrenched their helicopter away from a populated
area, or marines who, after spotting the struggling craft, scrambled over two
15-foot chain-link fences, raced through the campus and dragged out the three
injured crewmen before the copter blew up.

''It would have been irresponsible to allow people to walk through the
wreckage,'' Lt. Gen. Robert Blackman said in his office on Sunday. ''If there
were Domino's guys getting around the outer cordon, they were not getting
through the inner one to deliver pizza to the wreckage.''

''We were basically following procedures, guidelines of longstanding
application,'' he added, referring to a five-decade agreement that allows the
United States to investigate accidents caused by American military personnel
while on duty but off base in Japan. But the backlash has been so great that on
Friday, American officials agreed to renegotiate accident guidelines with Japan.

At Futenma, one of two American airstrips in Okinawa, there is a larger
frustration. Built more than 50 years ago on flat land surrounded by sugar cane
fields, it is now surrounded by neighbors who want it closed.

Paint is peeling, there is a hole in a hangar roof, and Col. Richard W. Lueking,
the base commander, complains that ''temporary'' offices have served for 10
years. Construction stopped in 1996, when the United States and Japan agreed to
build an alternative site at Nago.

Critics deride the plan as a classic sop to politically connected construction
companies: a $2 billion floating helicopter base that would be built on the
other side of Okinawa, in a rough area nicknamed ''typhoon alley.'' The
military's plans involve blowing up a coral reef, then building a huge landfill
and a steel platform nearly a mile long.

At last count, the plan is opposed by 400 international environmental groups,
889 international experts on coral reefs, a majority of voters of Nago in a 1997
referendum, a lawsuit in United States District Court in San Francisco and a
sit-in protest that has lasted for 147 days.

Last Thursday, Japan's government surreptitiously tried to send survey ships to
visit the offshore site to drill 63 test holes in the coral. But the ships were
met and harassed by a flotilla of sea kayaks, several piloted by local women in
their 60's who have been training for the past year in maritime disruption
tactics.

In Tokyo, Yukio Okamoto, a former Okinawa adviser to the prime minister, feels
as if he has seen this before.

''When Okinawans feel isolated from the central government, they rise,'' said
Mr. Okamoto, now a lobbyist, as he recounted waves of anti-base sentiment since
World War II. ''It may be happening again.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some 30,000 Okinawans rallied yesterday to protest the handling
of the crash of an American military helicopter at a local university campus.
(Photo by Kyodo)Map of Japan highlighting Ginowan: Ginowan, a city of 90,000, is
host to a bustling American airfield.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             402 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 23, 2004 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Mother's Protest, Silenced at a Rally

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 134 words



To the Editor:

''No Stars, Just Cuffs,'' by Maureen Dowd (column, Sept. 19), shocked me.

I can't believe that Bush supporters at a Laura Bush rally in New Jersey would
be so heartless as to surround a woman whose son died in Iraq and shout ''Four
more years!'' and wave their Bush-Cheney signs at her.

Sue Niederer of Hopewell, N.J., had every right to protest, but Ms. Dowd wrote
that Mrs. Niederer ''got handcuffed, arrested and charged with a crime for
daring to challenge the Bush policy in Iraq, where her son, Army First Lt. Seth
Dvorin, 24, died in February while attempting to disarm a bomb.''

Where was the respect for a fallen soldier and his family? The true colors of
the Republicans were showing that day, and they were not red, white and blue!

Lynette Nickel
Klamath Falls, Ore., Sept. 19, 2004

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             403 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 10, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The French Are Snared, but This Struggle Is Ivoirian

BYLINE: By Somini Sengupta

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM AFRICA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1113 words

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Nov. 9


The news reports streaming out of Abidjan, Ivory Coast's once shining
metropolis, seem like a throwback to a bygone era: white men and women cowering
in their homes, black men and women rampaging through the streets, European
soldiers swooping down in helicopters and plucking Europeans to safety.

It could have been Congo, circa 1964, when Belgian paratroopers swooped down on
the Congo River town of Stanleyville, now Kisangani, to evacuate terrified
Europeans during a nationalist rebellion.

There has never been any Algeria-like struggle against French colonialism in
Ivory Coast, nothing even approaching the nationalist movements in Congo to
shake off Belgian rule. In any case, the so-called Young Patriots who have led
the violent demonstrations against the French in Abidjan this week were, for the
most part, born well after independence from France was achieved more than 40
years ago.

Yet the weight of history is being used as a potent weapon to rally popular
sentiment for the sitting president, Laurent Gbagbo, and against the former
colonial ruler, which government supporters accuse of supporting Mr. Gbagbo's
rebel foes. ''Thank you for having brought failure to Jacques Chirac's coup
d'etat,'' the fiery pro-government leader, Charles Ble Goude, announced on state
television, according to Reuters, in a message directed at the pro-Gbagbo mobs
that surrounded the president's house on Monday.

But the hostility toward the French obscures a greater issue: the real identity
politics that is driving the conflict in Ivory Coast. That is a contest that
pits African against African, ethnic groups from the north against ethnic groups
from the south, landowners against migrant workers who want to be landowners.

Like so many conflicts in West Africa, the one in Ivory Coast is in large part a
contest for the country's most valuable asset: the land on which cocoa is grown.
Making it particularly entrenched are issues that were never fully resolved at
independence: Who is a citizen of Ivory Coast, who can rule, who can own land?

Those were the underlying issues when an 18-month cease-fire between northern
rebels and the government in the south was quashed last Thursday after Mr.
Gbagbo's military began bombing rebel-held towns. Matters took a sharp turn for
the worse on Saturday when Ivoirian planes bombed a French base near the
northern town of Bouake, killing nine soldiers and an American civilian. France
retaliated by destroying much of the country's military air assets.

The attack on the French base swiftly altered the story line. French troops that
had been in the country to monitor a buffer zone between government- and
rebel-held territories now became ensnared in the war itself. French officials
called the air raids on the French base deliberate.

On Tuesday, with government supporters clashing with French troops on the
streets of Abidjan, the Ivory Coast Army spokesman, Jules Yao Yao, said four
Ivoirians had been shot and killed by French forces in front of the Hotel
Ivoire, the luxury high-rise that once embodied the aspirations of modern,
independent Ivory Coast. One of the dead had his head blown off, Reuters
reported. Protesters carried the body of a young man with a bullet in his neck
to the gates of Mr. Gbagbo's home, the news agency said. ''This is France, this
is France!'' they cried.

All this week, pro-government forces have taken aim at French citizens, gutting
homes and businesses and sending hundreds of them and other expatriates mistaken
for being French into the sanctuary of the French military base and the United
Nations compound in Abidjan. United Nations officials on the ground raised the
alarm about ''hate messages'' that fanned anti-French feeling on state-run
radio. The United Nations secretary general on Tuesday called for ''the
cessation of all 'hate media.'''

It did not matter that French officials took pains to point out that their
military presence in Ivory Coast was purely to restore the rule of law and not
to depose a sitting president. ''France has absolutely no intention of
destabilizing Ivory Coast and its institutions or of taking sides,'' the French
foreign minister, Michel Barnier, said Sunday. ''Its paramount concern is to
preserve constitutional legality. It has no hidden intention.''

The French position received sharp backing from Gen. Charles F. Wald, deputy
commander of the United States European Command, who said Tuesday that President
Gbagbo had ''made an exceptionally ignorant and stupid judgmental mistake by
actually having these guys bomb people,'' adding, ''We strongly believe that the
French took the exact right action.''

The upheaval of recent days is the latest chapter in a crisis that started with
a failed coup attempt by disgruntled soldiers in September 2002. That quickly
blossomed into a full-scale rebellion led by northerners, who complained of
disenfranchisement and discrimination at the hands of the southern ruling elite.

Their ire was fed by a nativist movement led by the southern elites, called
''Ivoirite,'' literally Ivoirianness, which imposed new restrictions on who
could own land, vote and run for office. Emotions were further heightened when a
popular northern opposition politician, Alassane D. Ouattara, was disqualified
from the presidential race. He was deemed not to be a purebred Ivoirian.

Citizenship became a matter of bloodlines, defined by the southerners. It was a
radical turnaround from the open-door policy of the country's iron-fisted
founding president, Felix Houphouet-Boigny, who allowed migrants from
neighboring countries to work in and ultimately own vast swaths of land in Ivory
Coast, helping turn it into the world's top cocoa producer.

Since that time, the country has been divided between the government-held south
and the rebel-held north. The South African president, Thabo Mbeki, flew to
Abidjan on Tuesday in an effort to defuse the latest crisis on behalf of the
African Union. But the underlying issues that led to the conflict, chiefly
property rights and nationality requirements, have yet to be dealt with.

So has France's role in the future of Ivory Coast. An editorial on Tuesday in Le
Figaro, a right-of-center French newspaper, wondered, ''Do we want to reoccupy
our former colony to impose democracy, the rule of law and civil national
concord, in light of what the U.S. has promised to accomplish in Iraq? ''Do we
want to consolidate a cease-fire, in light of what the U.N. has been doing in
Cyprus for the past 30 years? Or, more modestly, do we want to content ourselves
with protecting what is left of 'French interests' in Felix Houphouet-Boigny 's
home country? No one knows.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demonstrators in Abidjan held up a mock coffin yesterday with
an inscription calling Jacques Chirac an assassin. (Photo by Schalk van
Zuydam/Associated Press)
 French soldiers stood near a dead youth as they confronted demonstrators at
their base. (Photo by Thierry Gouegnon/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             404 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands Demonstrate Against Bush in Santiago

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Nov. 19


Using tear gas and water cannons, riot police officers dispersed hundreds of
rock-throwing protesters on Friday after thousands of people had gathered
peacefully to demonstrate against the presence of President Bush at a weekend
summit meeting here.

Mr. Bush, in his first trip abroad since his re-election, is one of 21 world
leaders scheduled to attend the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
conference, being held here for the first time. The group, known as APEC, aims
to encourage economic growth and trade among member nations, who account for
more than half of the world's economy. The Chilean government has trumpeted the
decision to hold the meeting here as an indication that this country of 15
million has achieved elite status.

Protest organizers said 30,000 people took part in the late morning march, which
followed a convoluted route through downtown streets, far from the actual site
of the conference in a remote convention center surrounded by a mountain range.
The police refused to offer an estimate, and local radio stations put the number
of marchers at about 15,000.

The protesters, a combination of graying veterans of the Allende era, mixed with
younger environmental advocates, Indian groups, punks, goths and anarchists,
said APEC fostered economic inequality, and they criticized Mr. Bush for the war
in Iraq. They carried placards and banners portraying Mr. Bush as a vampire,
carrion-eating vulture, demon and ghost, as well as Cuban flags and a large
Iraqi flag with the exhortation, ''Hang on, Falluja!''

''We want Bush to know that he is not welcome here,'' said Monica Ceron, a
college student who was wearing a ''Bush Stinks'' T-shirt and a red headband
that with the words ''Down with Bush'' and a hammer and sickle. ''Our government
may want to do business with him, but the Chilean people oppose his genocidal
war on Iraq and his designs on Latin America.''

Citing the same international accords that made possible the detention of Gen.
Augusto Pinochet in Britain in 1998, opposition groups here even filed a
complaint to have Mr. Bush held as a war criminal. A judge dismissed the
complaint early this month, however, arguing lack of jurisdiction.

A few older demonstrators also complained of American support for the military
coup that overthrew Allende on Sept. 11, 1973. Secretary of State Colin L.
Powell offered an indirect apology for that policy last year, saying it was
''not a part of American history we are proud of.'' But marchers like
58-year-old Tomas Soto described the episode as ''an example of the kind of
state terrorism that the United States always claims to be against.''

Friday's march, organized by the Chilean Social Forum and nearly 100 other
groups opposed to corporate-led globalization, was the only legal means of mass
protest the government was willing to authorize during the conference. But some
other left-wing and anarchist groups have defied that ban and led smaller street
protests of their own all week, resulting in rock-throwing confrontations with
the police and several hundred arrests.

Security precautions have been extraordinary by Chilean standards, with an
estimated 4,000 police officers in the streets or around leading hotels,
helicopters in the air, streets blocked off and armored cars in reserve. The
government declared a holiday here in the capital on Friday to encourage people
to stay off the streets, but that only seemed to encourage university students
to join the protests.

In a flier distributed to schools and government offices, the national police
warned that ''Chile may be at the end of the world, but for international
terrorism, nothing is far enough away.'' The text made little distinction
between antiglobalization and terrorist groups and urged citizens to report any
''suspicious attitudes'' or ''the places of anti-APEC meetings'' to authorities.

Sara Larrain, one of the organizers of the protest, called the police flier ''an
effort to intimidate and spread fear.''

''We're not bomb throwers,'' she said. ''We want to confront APEC, but only in
the realm of ideas and paradigms.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some protesters burned a flag yesterday in Chile's capital to
oppose United States policies in Iraq. Others protested economic globalization.
(Photo by Tomas Munita/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             405 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 4, 2004 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Let My People Go

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF.

E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine


Here's a suggestion for President Bush from the protesters behind the democratic
''orange revolution'' here: Wear an orange tie.

''If he wore an orange tie, people here would be crying,'' said Yuri Maluta, a
protester from Lviv. ''It would show that the American president supports
democracy here.''

The request says something about the lighthearted and pro-American spirit on the
streets. Since my father grew up in what is now southwestern Ukraine, I decided
to come here to join my people -- and I found that waging revolution has rarely
been such fun.

Young people enveloped in orange scarves, hats and ribbons alternately chant
slogans for freedom, boogie to rock music, eat oranges, warm up and flirt at
McDonald's, and disappear into their downtown ''tent city'' to make love, not
war.

The protest organizers have placed gorgeous young women in the vanguard of
confrontations with troops, so the troops will be too dazzled to club them.

Most Ukrainians love the U.S., and to be an American here -- any American -- is
to be a rock star. Protesters overhear me speaking English and line up to ask me
to autograph their orange ribbons with a big ''U.S.A.'' (For an audiovisual
tour, go to www.nytimes.com/kristofresponds.)

Yet for all the giddiness among the protesters here, particularly after the
Supreme Court's landmark ruling in their favor yesterday, this is as much about
Russia as it is about Ukraine. And the first thing to say is that Vladimir Putin
has behaved utterly disgracefully.

Mr. Putin seems to regard the Ukrainians as Russia's serfs, bound to obey the
will of their master. Mr. Putin was a co-conspirator with Ukraine's outgoing
president, Leonid Kuchma, to tilt the campaign and fix the election in favor of
the pro-Moscow candidate, Viktor Yanukovich, whose criminal history (he served
almost four years for robbery and assault as a young man) would make him a fine
Putin stooge.

Mr. Putin visited Ukraine twice during the campaign to help Mr. Yanukovich, used
the Russian news media to promote him and then congratulated him publicly before
the results of the stolen election had even been completely counted. President
Bush and other Western leaders need to make it clear to Mr. Putin that he has no
right to extend his quasi dictatorship to other peoples.

Sure, it's traumatic for the Russians to have seen their country sink from a
superpower to a third-rate economy whose old colonies are now busy joining NATO.
But Mr. Putin has undermined Russian democracy, brutalized Chechnya and barely
helped in curbing weapons of mass destruction. We don't need to be so solicitous
of such a bully.

I was among the crowds in Independence Square when images of Mr. Putin were
shown on the huge screens. The crowd yelled a deafening ''boo.'' We should be
joining in.

Colin Powell strongly denounced the rigged election, and Ukrainians will
remember that American support with gratitude for a long time to come. But Mr.
Bush and the White House haven't been as outspoken as either Mr. Powell or the
Europeans, and that's a mistake.

Mr. Bush is working through the Europeans, and especially the Poles, to achieve
a solution, and he may fear that too public an American role would anger the
Russians and revive the cold war. Those are fair concerns.

But this is the moment of truth for Ukraine, when Mr. Putin is trying to thwart
the challenger, Viktor Yushchenko, by squelching a democratic election, and we
need to stand foursquare with the democrats.

''Bush has to push more strongly and decisively on Ukraine to be democratic,''
said Bogdan Prysyazhnyuk, a young lawyer who is backing the orange revolution.

''The Europeans are doing something, much more than Bush is,'' noted Natalya
Slobodyan, a journalism student who, like many young women, has dyed her hair
orange. That's a common view on the street, where the Europeans are seen as
standing up to Mr. Putin. Mr. Bush's behind-the-scenes role is less appreciated.

I'm glad that Europe is finally getting its act together, after bungling the
breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990's and studiously ignoring the catastrophe in
Darfur this year. But when a historic tide is running in our favor, our
president should be riding it at least abreast of the Europeans, not cheering
them from the shore.

Or he might at least choose an orange tie.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             406 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving Up Lives of Comfort for a Chance to Serve

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words


Almost a dozen women, silent and bundled against the cold, line up every day on
the stairs of an old music school on East Third Street, waiting to enter a
brightly lighted cafeteria. Their faces, some tired, others tough, betray their
hunger -- for food, friendship or just a break.

Those who serve them could be somewhere else. They come from money or comfort or
have college degrees or a trade. Yet they, too, have an equally compelling need
to be here, inside one of two houses of hospitality run by the Catholic Worker
movement. Through their lives and labors, they continue the example of Dorothy
Day and Peter Maurin, who started it 71 years ago in this city.

They feed the hungry, comfort the grieving and denounce violence, not out of a
sense of noblesse oblige but a stripped-down commitment to living alongside the
poor.

''I had a choice, but I believe we all came here because we had to,'' said
Amanda Daloisio, who has lived with her husband at the Third Street residence
known as Maryhouse for two years. ''Some need a place to sleep or food to eat. I
needed to be here in order to live a life that I thought was meaningful and to
discover how life can be lived rooted in the gospel.''

Yet doing those essential works of mercy is not easy in a city where acquiring
things you do not need or cannot afford is portrayed as a seasonal if not civic
virtue.

''It is very hard,'' Ms. Daloisio said. ''It is so in your face. You walk out
the door and there are enormous billboards telling you to buy stuff and do
stuff. It wears me down. I suppose being in this house is how I find some sanity
and some hope, versus the endless consumption in New York City which could leave
me utterly hopeless.''

Maryhouse, in the East Village, has a worn yet comfy feeling. Posters urging an
end to the war in Iraq are taped to the wall, as are images of latter-day icons
like Cesar Chavez or the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. The quiet is broken by the
tinkling of a piano, a knock on the door or the frequent ringing of a pay phone.

A big room on the first floor is dominated by thousands of newspapers rolled and
tucked into mailing bins. This handmade operation is the heart of the place's
mission of publishing The Catholic Worker. While it is published only seven
times a year now, the price is still a penny.

Printing and mailing the paper is perhaps the biggest single cost the group
incurs. Earlier this year, when a series of unexpected bills put the group in a
bind, a former volunteer placed a small notice in the Catholic magazine
Commonweal seeking donations. Several volunteers noted that benefactors were
kind enough to come forward. And that's all the money they need at the moment,
thank you.

With a steadfast reliance on Providence, they insisted that it would be wrong to
seek more right now. Their group operates on the principle of doing the most you
can with what you have. In the past, when they have had the good fortune to have
excess funds, they have donated it to some or all of the more than 100 other
Catholic Worker communities around the country.

It is just as much a hallmark that donations to the group are not
tax-deductible. They never sought tax-exempt status from the Internal Revenue
Service, a government agency that they feel has financed unjust wars. Besides,
how can one say he or she has truly shared when the donation comes off taxes?

''Someone once told me charity is donating what you do not need,'' said Matt
Daloisio, Amanda's husband, who gave up on joining his family's construction
business when he discovered the writings of Dorothy Day in college during the
1990's. ''The Catholic Worker deals in justice, returning to people what society
stole from them.''

That also means doing it with a touch of personal commitment, which the workers
hope will show ordinary New Yorkers how to help the less fortunate.

''We believe in personal responsibility rather than delegating any of these
things to organizations or governments,'' Mr. Daloisio said. ''We want to take
responsibility for the things around ourselves.''

Work at Maryhouse is a lot easier in many ways since no one gets a salary. Some
of the volunteers live elsewhere, opening up space for those who are less
fortunate.

Matthew Tessitore, a retired florist who has been coming around here for at
least 14 years, said it was easy for him to serve food, mop floors or just
listen to the women who came seeking help. He has grown old with them. He has
watched some of these people struggle with addiction or mental illness, gently
trying to get them into programs with varying success.

He keeps trying.

''Doing the works of mercy is a real test of Christianity,'' he said. ''Loving
people. Forgiving people, no matter how many times you have to do it.''

The same could be said of the workers' protest marches along the familiar route
from the Isaiah Wall opposite the United Nations to the military recruiting
station in Times Square. On Dec. 6, they did one such silent procession to mark
the second anniversary of the death of Philip Berrigan, the former priest and
activist who spent years in jail.

About a hundred people marched along 42nd Street, including Philip's brother
Daniel, a Jesuit priest who lives in New York. They carried signs against the
war, signs that denounced the treatment of Iraqi prisoners and banners that
called for an end to violence.

''The interesting thing about doing silent marches in New York City is it leaves
things open to reaction,'' Mr. Daloisio said. ''When you march and yell, people
make up their minds fast. When you have a long line of people walking silently
it gives people an opportunity to look and think.

Some passers-by took their fliers and offered encouragement. Others took one
skeptical look and kept walking. By Times Square, the rear of the line stopped
to let a bedraggled man with filthy, matted hair stagger by. As they resumed
their procession, two beefy men stood outside the ESPN Zone sports bar and
restaurant and heckled them for being ''sympathizers for the Iraqis.''

Within minutes, the group stood on the triangle by the recruiting station, where
29 of them were arrested for disorderly conduct. Father Berrigan and the
Daloisios were among those arrested. For a change, Felton Davis was not.

Mr. Davis, who has been with the movement for 17 years, estimates he has spent
about four years of his life in jail for various acts of civil disobedience. He
grew up in suburban comfort but was drawn here when he decided it was time to
look at how he lived and not just how he protested. As for many others here,
protest is no more important than doing the less glamorous but very necessary
household chores.

''Food needs to be cooked and served, there are people to be taken care of and
demonstrations to mount,'' Mr. Davis said. ''And ultimately there is prayer.
Most of us couldn't do this and we certainly couldn't go to jail without prayer,
without the belief God cares for the world.''

The day after the protest, the routines continued at Maryhouse. The phone kept
ringing and people kept knocking on the door. Nothing and no one was more
important than anything or anyone else. Meals were served. Prayers were offered.
Everyone was welcomed.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Felton Davis, with the Catholic Worker movement for 17 years,
estimates that he has spent about four years of his life in jail for various
acts of civil disobedience. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

 Antiwar protestors from the Catholic Worker movement as they awaited arrest at
the military recruiting station in Times Square last week. (Photo by Librado
Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             407 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 17, 2004 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Taped Voice, Said to Be bin Laden's, Criticizes Saudis

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting for this
article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 919 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, Dec. 16


In an audiotape posted Thursday on an Islamist Web site, Osama bin Laden
appeared to turn his attention to his Saudi homeland, accusing the ruling
al-Saud dynasty of being the ''agents of infidels'' and applauding an attack
last week against the United States Consulate in Jidda.

The recording, which seems to feature Mr. bin Laden's voice but has not been
verified by intelligence experts, materialized on the same day that a
London-based Saudi opposition figure had called for tens of thousands of Saudis
to pour onto the streets of the country's two main cities to demonstrate their
opposition to the absolute monarchy.

Although it was improbable that any demonstration would have attracted such
numbers, a fierce dragnet by security services in downtown Riyadh, the capital,
and in Jidda, the commercial hub, prevented even small clusters of protesters
from gathering.

Experts in the workings of Al Qaeda's terrorist network believe that Mr. bin
Laden, with his own movement inside Saudi Arabia largely broken into small
disjointed cells after 18 months of widespread arrests, may have been trying to
draw attention to his own long-stated desire to overthrow the Saudi government
on what was supposed to be a day of demonstrations. None of his previous 17 or
so recordings focused so pointedly on the kingdom.

''He noticed that there was all this heat internally in Saudi Arabia,'' said
Montasser Zayat, a Cairo lawyer once jailed with Ayman al-Zawahiri, Mr. bin
Laden's lieutenant. ''So he is trying to make his presence felt on the Saudi
scene after being absent for a long time.''

Although the Bush administration has failed for more than three years to find
Mr. bin Laden, believed to be somewhere along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border,
he has apparently little trouble keeping abreast of events and getting his
repeated musings distributed.

Mr. bin Laden, Al Qaeda's founder, was last seen in a videotape released just
before the American presidential election, threatening new attacks in the United
States. This latest audiotape's reference to the Jidda attacks prove it is of
recent vintage.

In Washington, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the tape appeared to be
from Mr. bin Laden but said American intelligence experts would have to confirm
its authenticity.

''He's a terrorist,'' Mr. Powell said in brief remarks, calling the tape
incitement to violence. ''That is what terrorists do.''

On the recording, Mr. bin Laden praised the five gunmen who stormed the heavily
guarded American Consulate on Dec. 6, shooting dead five local maintenance and
other service employees before four of the attackers were gunned down and the
fifth seriously wounded. Although hundreds of Al Qaeda sympathizers have been
jailed in Saudi Arabia, the attack underscored that small cells still have the
ability to mount lethal attacks.

''We ask God to have mercy on the mujahedeen who attacked the American
Consulate,'' Mr. bin Laden said, scoffing at the idea that Americans should be
afforded any protection in the kingdom. ''How do they want to be blessed with
security when they spread destruction and death on our people in Palestine and
Iraq?''

In the message, addressed specifically to ''Muslims in the land of the two holy
mosques,'' Mr. bin Laden said the faults of the Saud dynasty went far beyond
moral lapses.

''We are not talking about a leader who suffers a little moral depravity and
debauchery, we are talking about apostasy and serving as agents for infidels,''
he said, referring to the longstanding alliance between the Saudi royal family
and Washington.

Mr. bin Laden's long-term goal in organizing his violent movement has been to
overthrow the Sauds and replace them with some manner of Islamic caliphate.

The aim of the would-be street demonstrations on Thursday, called for by Saad
al-Faqih of the London-based Movement for Islamic Reform in Arabia, was also the
overthrow of the Saudi ruling family.

All street demonstrations are illegal in the kingdom, but the last such attempt
in October 2003 drew scores of people, with several hundred arrested and some 30
imprisoned for nearly two months.

There were conflicting reports by organizers and the government on Thursday on
what happened, but it was clear that the heavy presence of security forces in
both Riyadh and Jidda thwarted any gathering.

Organizers and witnesses interviewed by telephone said checkpoints had been set
up on major routes to the two announced locations to screen all cars headed into
the center of the two cities and anyone who got out of a car at either site was
immediately led away by the police, usually in handcuffs. Most were apparently
released after several hours, they said, but it was unclear how many people were
detained.

Witnesses heard gunfire at the Jidda location. A government spokesman attributed
it to a few demonstrators firing into the air. A man identified as a witness by
Al Jazeera, the satellite network, said troops were firing in the direction of
the protesters, who had first gathered for noon prayers.

Although Saudis broadly criticize their government as repressive and
incompetent, neither Mr. bin Laden nor the London-based movement seem to have
attracted much support for their domestic goals.

''I think it is all nonsense,'' said Muhammad A. al-Zulfa, a historian appointed
to the Consultative Council, a government advisory arm. ''They expect Saudis
will all leave their houses and go into the streets to bring down the
government? It is just in their imagination.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             408 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 28, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yushchenko Wins 52% of Vote; Rival Vows a Challenge

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1304 words

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Dec. 27


With virtually all votes counted, Viktor A. Yushchenko, the opposition leader,
was Ukraine's presumptive president-elect on Monday. But his opponent, Prime
Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich, refused to accept the results and said he would
challenge them in court.

Mr. Yushchenko led Mr. Yanukovich by 52.06 percent to 44.14 percent, a lead of
more than 2.2 million votes, according to the Central Election Commission, which
by late Monday had counted 99.89 percent of the ballots cast.

Kiev was calm after weeks of demonstrations and civil disobedience, and there
were signs that the evident outcome of the election on Sunday, the third round
of voting for Ukraine's president within two months, was being recognized
abroad.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the election appeared free and fair. The
Foreign Ministry of Belarus, Ukraine's neighbor and an authoritarian state that
often echoes Moscow, told the Interfax news agency that it respected the
decision of the Ukrainian people.

The European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, also signaled his
satisfaction, saying Ukraine's leaders, after months of intrigue and scandal,
had in the end ''acted with a high degree of responsibility.''

Importantly, the leaders of a prominent team of international election observers
declared that the conduct of the voting on Sunday was a substantial improvement
over previous rounds.

''The people of this great country can be truly proud that yesterday they took a
great step toward free and democratic elections by electing the next president
of Ukraine,'' said Bruce George, special coordinator of observers from the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

The organization's assessment was crucial to the election's legitimacy. In the
previous round of voting, on Nov. 21, Western observers cited widespread fraud
and abuse of state power on behalf of Prime Minister Yanukovich, who had claimed
victory.

Their report lent credibility to Mr. Yushchenko's opposition movement and his
supporters' mass demonstrations, provided a basis for an international outcry,
and helped lead to a complaint to the Supreme Court, which nullified the voting.

This time, in a reversal of the Nov. 21 election, it was Mr. Yanukovich who was
refusing to accept the outcome. Speaking Monday evening at his headquarters, he
asserted that a huge number of Ukrainians had been denied access to the polls,
either by restrictive new voting rules or by intimidation by Mr. Yushchenko's
supporters. He said he would file a challenge to the Supreme Court, seeking
cancellation of the results.

''This is a crying fact: Millions of Ukrainian citizens did not have a chance to
vote,'' he said. ''They were thrown out. They were humiliated. There were more
than 4,800,000 of such people.''

Mr. Yanukovich's claim did not square with the reports of international
observers or journalists, and although for a moment Kiev seemed bound for a
continued standoff in this protracted race, the prime minister's challenge
appeared destined to go forward without independent corroboration or European
support.

Furthermore, while Mr. Yanukovich appeared to be following the Yushchenko
playbook in protesting the results, there were other unmistakable differences.
Mr. Yushchenko's complaints last month were matched not just by Western leaders
but by a huge outpouring of support in Ukraine. Parliament also took up his
case.

But Mr. Yanukovich was stepping into a much more lonely fight. He mustered few
supporters in the capital on Monday, and Parliament ignored him, announcing
plans through a spokesman to prepare for Mr. Yushchenko's inauguration.

Mr. George of the European organization, speaking generally about critics of the
latest vote, also noted that anyone hoping to overturn the election would soon
face a real test: providing evidence. ''If you make an allegation about
misconduct, then tell us where it took place, how it took place and who made
that criminal act,'' he said. ''If you cannot do that, withdraw the
allegation.''

It was easier to make allegations, he said, then to demonstrate them with facts.

Mr. George did say there were some problems with the election, including errors
on voting lists and confusion over procedures for invalids voting at their
homes. But without the independent corroboration of the sort of widespread fraud
seen in the previous two rounds and given Mr. Yushchenko's strong margin of
victory, the prospects for a challenge seemed poor.

The departing president, Leonid D. Kuchma, who had energetically backed Mr.
Yanukovich in the previous two rounds of voting, made no public appearances or
statements on Monday.

Mr. Yushchenko, who had claimed victory before his supporters in Independence
Square early Monday, remained out of public view as well through the rest of the
day.

Political analysts noted that while the election challenge runs it course, Mr.
Yushchenko, who has endured poisoning by dioxin and orchestrated fraud against
his effort to gain the presidency, must now turn to the difficult tasks of
governing.

His victory was clear, but it was not as overwhelming as voter surveys at the
polls and early tallies had suggested. With the prime minister receiving more
than 44 percent of the total, it was evident that a good part of the country
opposed the presumptive future president.

Moreover, the results showed a deep geographic split, with the south and the
east voting for Mr. Yanukovich by wide margins.

Mr. Yushchenko, facing a polarized electorate, must now select a cabinet and a
prime minister and begin trying to forge a new, post-Kuchma identity for the
country.

''Viktor Yushchenko is the new president of the new Ukraine,'' said Dr. Grigory
Nemyria, director of the Center for European and International Studies here.
''Yushchenko himself is important. But what is more important, long term, is the
new Ukraine.''

Dr. Nemyria said Mr. Yushchenko must try to modernize the economy in industrial
regions in the east and south, an area he described as a rust belt reminiscent
of Pittsburgh decades ago. He said that task would be especially difficult,
because the region was where Mr. Yushchenko's support was weakest.

He also said the mass of people who turned out to support Mr. Yushchenko's
challenge to the incumbent government, which is largely regarded as oppressive
and corrupt, meant that there were high expectations that he would bring swift
and clear change, in part by moving against corruption and creating open and
independent civic institutions.

''One could call it a Herculean task,'' Dr. Nemyria said.

First he must wait to be declared the official winner, and for the court
challenge to be examined by the Supreme Court. On one score, he seemed secure:
the capital appeared to be with him.

A few of Prime Minister Yanukovich's supporters did show up on Monday to wave
his distinctive blue and white flags near his headquarters. But they numbered
only a few dozen, and seemed more worried than inspired.

Mr. Yanukovich had previously said he planned to bring huge numbers of his
supporters to Kiev in the event he lost the race, but his supporters on the
streets on Monday said they were local people, and they showed little signs of
organization or preparation.

On the corner outside the prime minister's headquarters, three young men had
only one banner to wave, and they shared a single bottle of beer.

''There were falsifications on the Yushchenko side,'' said one of them, Doniyel
Yashikov, 18, a student at the Interior Ministry's law enforcement academy. ''I
will never recognize him.''

Asked how he would resist, Mr. Yashikov said he would go to rallies. There were
no rallies in sight, just cars passing by with their drivers and passengers
largely ignoring him. Many of their antennas bore the orange ribbons of the
Yushchenko campaign.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A supporter of Viktor A. Yushchenko handed out roses of his
party's color yesterday at a rally in Kiev. (Photo by James Hill for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             409 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 24, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Germans Bush Wasn't Able to See

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; BUSH IN EUROPE: EMPTY TOWN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: MAINZ, Germany, Feb. 23


President Bush of course is not the first president named Bush to come to this
town on the Rhine, but the very physical circumstances of this president's
stopover here on Wednesday suggest how different, how less automatically warm,
German-American relations are now than they were when his father stopped in
Mainz 16 years ago.

Most conspicuous was the lack of contact between ordinary Germans and an
American president visiting what could almost have been a stage setting: a town
with buildings but no people, the shops and restaurants in the center of town
closed, and only uniformed police officers on the streets.

Compare that with the main event of the first President Bush's trip here in
1989: a speech to an enthusiastic audience of 3,500 people gathered in a
flag-draped hall, thrilling to Mr. Bush's declaration that Germany and America
are more than ''firm allies and friends,'' they are ''partners in leadership.''

After the speech, Mr. Bush and Chancellor Helmut Kohl -- two men united in the
great cause of winning, or at least surviving, the cold war -- took a boat trip
on the river, enjoying each other's company.

Of course, in the security-minded post-9/11 world, a visiting American president
cannot just stand exposed before throngs of German citizens, as John F. Kennedy
did in 1963 when he made his famous ''I am a Berliner'' speech, or as Ronald
Reagan did in 1987 when he declared ''Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!''

But this president was entirely sealed off from Germans -- other than Chancellor
Gerhard Schroder and the German journalists at a news conference, and even a
town-meeting-type encounter with Mainz residents was scrubbed out of worry the
mood would be hostile. A meeting with a group of carefully screened ''young
leaders'' was put in its place.

Still, Mr. Bush's seven-hour stopover was very successful, according to German
and American officials focused on repairing German-American relations damaged by
disagreements over the war in Iraq. But the isolation of Mr. Bush from everyday
Germans seemed a metaphor for how far apart Germans and Americans have drifted.

''I think it was not only fine, but excellent,'' Karsten Voigt, a senior German
Foreign Ministry official, said after Mr. Bush met with Mr. Schroder. ''Both
sides obviously want to symbolize, by language, by rhetoric and by body language
that German-American relations are good. When politicians do that, it's more
than symbolic, it's also substance, because it gives a signal to public opinion
that this is the way they want it to be in the future.''

''I'm not saying that all the differences have been solved,'' he said. ''But the
dialogue is no longer about whether a policy is right or wrong; it is now about
developing the right strategy to deal with problems.''

But what of the eerie absence of the population of Mainz, and the cancellation
of the town meeting? Mr. Voigt said that, aside from restrictions imposed for
security reasons, the invisibility of ordinary Germans illustrated the
skepticism felt by a majority of Germans toward Mr. Bush.

''It's simply a fact that the German government is moving in this direction,''
Mr. Voigt said, meaning toward warmer ties with the United States, ''but that
the German population is skeptical.''

To be sure, one purpose of Mr. Bush's visit was to erase the memories of those
days two years ago when Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld called Europe
''irrelevant,'' and Mr. Bush and Mr. Schroder were essentially not speaking.

Mr. Bush might have succeeded in his fence-mending; certainly in calling Mr.
Schroder by his first name at their joint news conference and thanking Germany,
France and Britain for ''taking the lead'' on Iran -- an initiative toward which
the Bush White House had been openly suspicious -- Mr. Bush altered the oratory
and perhaps the mood.

It may in this sense be unfair to compare Mainz 2005 with other, showier
American presidential visits to Germany, from Kennedy's in 1963 to Bill
Clinton's stroll through the Brandenburg Gate, marking the withdrawal of
American troops from a reunified Berlin. Those were times when Germany lay
exactly across history's main fault line, and, quite simply, it does not any
more.

But the dispute over the Iraq war awoke German citizens to something new in
their relationship with the United States, an unease over the price that they
might have to pay to be members of an alliance led by a figure whose instincts
they distrust.

''Most Germans are still emotionally averse to what Bush stands for -- going it
alone, not paying attention to due process, which we love in Europe,'' said
Eberhard Sandschneider, the director of the German Council on Foreign Relations.

The Germans remain anxious that their country will yet be drawn into a foreign
military venture by a president who, as Mr. Bush has affirmed several times so
far on his European tour, keeps all options, including military action, on the
table.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters made their feelings known in Mainz yesterday as
President Bush's itinerary avoided contact with everyday Germans. A meeting with
the public was canceled for fear the audience would be hostile. (Photo by Markus
Schreiber/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             410 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 9, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Free Trade Proposal Splits Bolivian City

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words

DATELINE: EL ALTO, Bolivia, March 8


This city, a poverty-stricken expanse of adobe houses considered the capital of
Bolivia's indigenous people, was the flashpoint of relentless protests against
globalization that toppled a government more than a year ago and had threatened
another president, Carlos Mesa, who offered his resignation on Monday in the
face of mounting demonstrations.

On Tuesday night, though, the Bolivian Congress rejected the resignation, giving
Mr. Mesa a fresh start despite street protests that paralyzed parts of the
nation. No one, though, predicts that El Alto will remain calm. As Bolivia
inches toward free trade talks with the United States, which is vilified by a
powerful leftist movement in this country, the protesters have said they are not
finished.

But even as this clash of views is being played out, El Alto is quietly
benefiting from trade preferences provided by Washington, spawning hundreds of
small businesses and thousands of jobs. That has created a little-noticed
fissure between those who maintain that Bolivia needs to enter what the Bush
administration envisions as a hemisphere-wide free trade zone, and others who
say that such an agreement will leave the country, South America's poorest, even
more destitute.

That fierce division of opinion, most apparent in Bolivia, the most
protectionist nation in the region, is echoed across Latin America -- and it is
driven by persistent poverty. The market-oriented changes that Washington long
ago prescribed for Latin America have brought little or no prosperity to the
average person, with some lands poorer than before.

Growth has been no better than halting in a region that needs galloping momentum
to pull many of its people out of poverty, despite improved economic indicators
seen in 2004. The United Nations estimated the number of people living in
poverty in Latin America at 221 million in 2002, up from 200 million in 1990.
''When you see that there's only been two years of growth in the last 10 years,
and other years it was so-so or there was no growth at all, then the political
impact is very big,'' said Cesar Gaviria, a former secretary general of the
Organization of American States.

''So some of these countries have many problems and there is no support for
these reforms, or confidence in them, because the expectations for what would
happen with growth were not met,'' said Mr. Gaviria, now chairman of Hemispheric
Partners, a New York firm providing risk analysis to investors. ''Some of those
people who say that nothing has changed are, in fact, right.''

But those promoting free trade point to the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug
Eradication Act, a preferential trade deal that lowers United States tariffs on
a range of goods, essentially rewarding governments in the region's
drug-producing countries for their cooperation. Bolivian exporters to the United
States -- a diverse group including furniture manufacturers, jewelry makers and
textile producers -- have benefited, growing notably in this city of 750,000
outside La Paz, the capital. El Alto, with its small, humming manufacturing base
juxtaposed against the most virulent anti-globalization movement in Latin
America, embodies those tensions.

''El Alto is the principal beneficiary of this law,'' said Marcos Iberkleid,
president of America Textil, a 40-year-old garment maker that ships to retailers
like Ralph Lauren. ''The workers know that and see a tangible difference.''

Others, like Pablo Solon, who heads a policy group, the Fundacion Solon, that
opposes the American-led talks, says that free trade aims to chip away at
Bolivia's control of its natural gas and minerals, dropping Bolivian tariffs on
United States imports and opening vast sectors of the economy to investors. The
American plan, he argues, would badly hurt a country ill prepared to compete.

''We do not want to turn Bolivia into an island,'' Mr. Solon said, ''but what we
want are negotiations that take note of the realities of our country. Much of
what is being offered will simply lead to more instability in our country.''

The growing debate in this hermetic land of nine million comes as the Bush
administration, which aspires to an Alaska-to-Argentina trade bloc, has moved
aggressively to sign two-party agreements and to press reluctant partners, like
Brazil, into accepting its view on trade. So far, deals have been signed with
Central American countries, the Dominican Republic and Chile.

Now, Washington is seeking an accord with three of Bolivia's Andean neighbors,
Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Bolivia is currently an observer -- a concession to
the country's left-leaning leaders -- but increasingly, government officials and
business leaders have declared the need for this country to jump in.

Under the Andean pact, negotiated for Bolivia by former President Jorge Quiroga
in 2002, dozens of Bolivian products enter the United States duty-free. That
pact expires at the end of 2006.

The problem for Bolivia's government, ever wary of the next round of unrest by
globalization opponents, is that the United States now wants it to agree to a
quite different kind of deal, one that would open nontraditional exporters to
American investment. It would also fly in the face of efforts by the Bolivian
left to enact a law that would expand state control over the oil and gas
industry.

As Eduardo Gamarra, the Bolivian-born director of the Latin America and
Caribbean Center at Florida International University, sees it: ''The Americans
are saying, 'Look, this was a temporary arrangement, and now you have to pay.
You have to do certain things and you have to open your economies to us.'''

But the voices advocating Bolivia's entry into a trade accord have been
gathering force, the most prominent in El Alto being that of Mayor Jose Luis
Paredes, who was re-elected in December on a free trade plank. With a small
staff, working in a church because city hall was burned by protesters in 2003,
he is trying to present a different image of El Alto. ''We cannot just close
ourselves off,'' Mr. Paredes said of his city. ''If society thought free trade
was of no use, I would not be mayor.''

Though figures on job creation are sketchy, Mr. Paredes said that the Andean
pact had already helped double the number of workers employed in factories and
by small contractors to more than 20,000. A few big factories have arrived, he
said, and the number of microbusinesses -- shops with just a few workers, often
under contract to manufacturers -- has risen to 5,300 from 2,500.

That is still a relatively small share of the local economy -- 162,000 people
work in the informal sector in El Alto, barely making ends meet selling trinkets
or food on the street.

But exports to the United States under the Andean pact were up 20 percent in the
first 10 months of 2004 from the period a year earlier, and Mr. Paredes said
that had given Bolivia a tantalizing look at what the future might hold if an
accord on a larger scale was signed.

Among the big beneficiaries is Eduardo Bracamonte, general manager of
Exportadores Bolivianos. A maker of jewelry for Macy's, Bloomingdale's and
Wal-Mart, its exports of necklaces, rings, pendants and similar items rose to
$39 million last year, up 34 percent from 2003.

The company employs 750 workers in two plants in La Paz and depends on 1,600
more contract laborers in 17 small factories in El Alto, a work force poised to
grow under a new pact.

''This is mass production,'' he said during a tour, as rows of employees in gray
work clothes soldered or strung gold chains in his main plant. ''What the United
States wants fits in perfectly with what we can offer.''

Textile exports have also shot up, mostly benefiting companies like Mr.
Iberkleid's America Textil, which had $32 million worth of exports in 2004, up
20 percent from 2003.

On vast and well-lighted floors in Mr. Iberkleid's factories, workers stitch
clothes, examine garments and pack boxes. Others at computer terminals receive
orders from the United States, making last-minute alterations before firing off
instructions to people on the assembly line.

Here, the pay and benefits can be more than triple the minimum wage of $55 a
month, workers are unionized and some receive company-paid university training
-- treatment that is unusual in a country like Bolivia. With orders for clothes
pouring in, Mr. Iberkleid has 3,000 workers, up from 1,300 before the trade
preferences took effect. ''When I talk to the workers to discuss free trade,''
he said, ''the support is massive.''

But the rosy outlook hides an undercurrent of dissatisfaction among workers
here, the kind of pent-up anger that prompted the nationwide protests last week
that are endangering Mr. Mesa. Many of them are contract employees for small
outfits that barely pay minimum wages.

At one, a jewelry maker, rows of workers repeated the tedious task of stringing
together chains from specks of gold. It is difficult work and the pay -- just
above the minimum wage -- is a pittance, workers said.

One of them, Moises Pintado, 33, said that sometimes employees are not paid on
time. He pines for the days when state-owned companies, like the tin and silver
mines that once dotted Bolivia, provided many of the jobs. ''Since these new
companies are private, they pay us less,'' he said. ''We protest for that
reason.''

Those most poised to protest, the consensus in Bolivia goes, are in El Alto,
many driven here by the grinding poverty in their hometowns.

In October 2003, spiraling protests began here against President Gonzalo Sanchez
de Lozada's plans to pipe natural gas out of the country, and led to his
resignation. Then earlier this year, protesters shut down the city, prompting
Mr. Mesa to cancel a contract with the French-owned waterworks, which had been
accused of charging too much for connecting households to the water network.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at America Textil, a big manufacturer in La Paz and El
Alto, Bolivia, wearing a protective mask while cleaning up cotton. (Photo by
David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Bolivian workers making gold jewelry in El Alto, a city that has been at the
heart of globalization protests.
 Current trade preferences have benefited America Textil, a garment maker with
plants in El Alto that exports to retailers like Ralph Lauren. (Photographs by
David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             411 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 9, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

PRO-SYRIA PARTY IN BEIRUT HOLDS A HUGE PROTEST

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Jad Mouawad contributed reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, March 8


Shouting anti-American and anti-Israeli slogans, hundreds of thousands of
Lebanese poured into central Beirut on Tuesday in a show of strength by the
militant Shiite Muslim party Hezbollah, which opposes a withdrawal of Syrian
forces from Lebanon.

The enormous crowd, in which many had been bused in from the Shiite slums of
southern Beirut, was far larger than the anti-Syrian demonstrations of recent
weeks that have drawn broad international support. It offered a defiant
challenge to the Lebanese opposition forces that have insisted on Syrian
withdrawal and exposed fault lines of class and ideology.

''Today, you decide the future of your nation and your country; today, you
answer the world,'' the Hezbollah leader, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, said in a rare
and surprise appearance. Banners held aloft read: ''No to American-Zionist
intervention. Yes to Lebanese-Syrian brotherhood.''

President Bush, speaking later in Washington, stepped up pressure on Syria to
withdraw its 14,000 troops before Lebanon's elections in May, saying the forces
of authoritarianism across the Middle East are facing a fast-moving wave of
popular opposition. The emergence of democracy in Lebanon, he said, would amount
to a ring on ''the doors of every Arab regime.'' [Page A10.]

The participants at the demonstration here represented, by and large, a very
different Lebanon from the educated, better-off Christians, Druse and Sunni
Muslims who have captured the world's attention since Rafik Hariri, the former
prime minister, was assassinated Feb. 14 by a huge car bomb.

While the anti-Syrian opposition movement has been called the Cedar Revolution,
a reference to the Lebanese national tree, it has also been called the BMW
revolution. The demonstration included far more women with covered heads and
many men in traditional dress.

Since the killing of Mr. Hariri, a billionaire who resigned as prime minister to
protest Syrian domination of Lebanon, many Lebanese parties have called for the
complete withdrawal of Syrian troops, which have been here since 1976.

Backers of the withdrawal have taken to the streets in demonstrations
reminiscent of the events in November in Ukraine, where a rigged election was
overturned partly through popular rallies. The Lebanese opposition blames Syria
for Mr. Hariri's death, a charge Syria has denied.

Hezbollah, or the Party of God, had remained quiet until Tuesday despite
invitations by the opposition to join.

The opposition has been struggling to demonstrate that it is the voice of the
majority while becoming a favorite cause of the Bush administration.

''Freedom will prevail in Lebanon,'' Mr. Bush said Tuesday. ''The American
people are on your side. Millions across the earth are on your side.''

But Hezbollah, which the State Department classifies as a terrorist group, is
now Lebanon's best organized political party and maintains a militia of some
20,000 men.

United Nations Resolution 1559, passed in September 2004, calls for both the
withdrawal of all foreign forces and the disarmament of Lebanon's militias.

To Hezbollah and its followers, the foreign threat to Lebanon comes not from
Syria but from Israel and its ally, the United States. Israel occupied part of
southern Lebanon from 1982 until 2000 in order to prevent infiltrations from
radical anti-Israel groups. Many Lebanese Shiites say Israel still has designs
on their land and that the American-backed democracy movement is simply another
form of American imperialism.

''Forget about your dreams of Lebanon,'' Sheik Nasrallah, the Hezbollah leader,
said at the rally, speaking to Israel's leaders. ''What you did not win in war,
I swear, you will not win with politics.''

Speaking to the Bush administration, he said: ''You are wrong in your
calculations in Lebanon. Lebanon will not be divided. Lebanon is not Somalia;
Lebanon is not Ukraine; Lebanon is not Georgia.''

Ahmad Moussa, 22, a student at the rally, said: ''We're here to defend our
liberty and our true sovereignty, the sovereignty of the resistance. The
opposition wants to open the door to the Americans and to foreign intervention.
We will stop them.''

The demonstration was held in Riyadh al Solh Square a few blocks from Martyrs'
Square, where the opposition movement has held its demonstrations. The
pro-Syrian demonstrators filled the open field in front of United Nations
offices in Beirut, and stretched across nearby overpasses, roads and tunnels.

Officially, the demonstration was sponsored by several political parties. But
the rally was all Hezbollah, complete with well-designed banners, anthems, crowd
control and a secret police infrastructure to ensure that things stayed
peaceful.

Hezbollah, which has 13 of the 128 seats in the Lebanese Parliament and hopes to
expand its power as the country prepares for the May elections, clearly wanted
to make a show of strength through the demonstration, challenging the
opposition's claim to represent the nation's future.

''I want to show the Americans, the French and the U.N. that we are the majority
of the Lebanese and that we have a voice,'' said Youness Ismail, 26, a
restaurant owner from the poor southern suburbs, who had arrived in the square
on Tuesday morning. ''All they have done is make us promises they never kept,
and now they are trying to use the international community to reoccupy us.''

Like the opposition movement, the demonstrators waved Lebanese flags and called
for national unity, while demanding the truth behind Mr. Hariri's assassination.
But the sea of people also raised photos of the Syrian president, Bashar
al-Assad, and the Lebanese president, Emile Lahoud, an ally of Syria. Some
banners read, ''America is the source of terrorism.''

''This is a goodbye party, not a show of support for Syria,'' said the
opposition leader Jibran Tuweini, editor of the Lebanese daily An Nahar. ''If
they wanted this to be a challenge to us, they would have brought their party's
yellow flags. But Hezbollah doesn't want to burn its bridges with anyone because
ultimately they will have to return to the Lebanese people once everything is
over.''

At Martyrs' Square, opposition demonstrators who have been camping out expressed
their frustration at the growing demonstration not far away. The roar of the
crowd could be heard as the tents rustled in the wind, and many Hezbollah
demonstrators walked past the opposition tents pitched at the square. The
Lebanese Army showed up in full force to ensure that both groups were kept
apart.

''Shame on them -- they are carrying flags and raising pictures of foreign
leaders,'' said Samer Samer, 57, who had brought his two sons to the opposition
camp. ''They're like us; they want no foreign interference and want the U.S.,
Israel and France out. But we also want the Syrians out too.''

Fears that the growing political tension will lead to a resurgence of violence
have grown in recent days as Lebanon's political and sectarian fault lines have
re-emerged. Lebanon's rival groups fought a vicious civil war from 1975 to 1990,
leaving parts of the country in ruins.

''This is a delicate situation but not a dangerous one,'' Mr. Tuweini, the
opposition leader, insisted as he watched the demonstration on television from
his office overlooking Martyrs' Square. ''I'm not worried about the unity of the
Lebanese, but I am worried that car bombs and assassinations will happen as we
try to defend it.''

The demonstration came one day after Syria began a redeployment of its forces to
the Bakaa region. But Mr. Assad and Mr. Lahoud said in a statement on Monday
that a complete withdrawal would await negotiations with a future Lebanese
government, raising the likelihood that Syrian soldiers will still be in the
country during the elections in May.

On Tuesday, Lebanese officials told The Associated Press that the main Syrian
intelligence offices, along with Syrian troops, would be relocated by March 23,
when the Arab League is to hold its annual summit meeting in Algeria.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demonstrators carried a portrait of President Bashar al-Assad
of Syria and an anti-American placard in Beirut, Lebanon, yesterday during a
pro-Syrian rally organized by the militant Shiite group Hezbollah. (Photo by
Hussein Malla/Associated Press)(pg. A1)
Lebanese women cheered while carrying a portrait of Syria's president yesterday
at a Hezbollah rally in Beirut. Far more women with head coverings attended than
have been present at anti-Syrian rallies earlier. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for
The New York Times)
 A Lebanese Shiite Muslim journalist watched from a balcony as hundreds of
thousands of pro-Syrian demonstrators gathered in Beirut. (Photo by Norbert
Schiller for The New York Times)(pg. A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             412 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 10, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Beirut Tea Party

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 776 words


The massive pro-Syrian demonstration that the Hezbollah militia mounted on the
streets of Beirut on Tuesday underscored just how much all the old slogans and
sentiments -- anti-Israeli, anti-American, pro-Islamist, sectarian -- can be
exploited by Syria, Iran and their local proxies to still mobilize popular
forces against change. It is also another reminder that the Berlin Wall is
falling in the Arab world, but Vaclav Havel, Lech Walesa and the Solidarity
trade movement are not on the other side, just waiting to jump into the arms of
the West. It is a much more divided, complex, confused and, at times, angry
group.

Consider the message that the leaders of Iran, Syria and Hezbollah were sending
to President Bush through their mass rally in Beirut: ''Hey, Bush, you want a
piece of us? Well, come and get it. Remember what Stalin said about the pope:
how many divisions does he have? When it comes to divisions on the ground, pal,
we've got 'em. You don't. So nobody is going to remake Lebanon without our
permission and without our interests being taken into account.''

What is the right response to this? I would begin my answer with an assertion:
What we have been seeing in the outbursts of democracy in the streets of Beirut,
Baghdad, Cairo and even Riyadh is something real and authentic. It is driven
both in response to particular events -- like the murder of the former Lebanese
prime minister Rafik Hariri -- and in response to a deep longing in this part of
the world for a different future, particularly among young people, who know what
is going on elsewhere and want their own piece of the freedom pie.

''It was our Boston Tea Party,'' said the Lebanese political analyst Nawaf
Salam, speaking of the recent spontaneous pro-democracy demonstrations in
Lebanon, which Hezbollah tried to counter on Tuesday with its own pro-Syrian
rally. ''People feel empowered for the first time; they are feeling that their
voice matters -- that they can say things,'' added Mr. Salam, whose recent book,
''Options for Lebanon,'' is the best road map you will find for thinking through
how democracy may emerge there. ''It is not yet victory, but for the first time
in a very long time, people are feeling, 'I can make change.' And there is a
real sense of fraternity and unity.''

The spreading virus that ''things can change and I can make a difference'' is
the most important thing happening in the Arab world today. It is symbolized by
the Egyptian opposition's motto: ''Enough.'' And everyone is watching everyone
else now -- and comparing. An Egyptian businesswoman remarked to me, with a real
sense of envy, how free and alive and energetic the Lebanese opposition
protesters seemed, compared with those in Egypt.

The fact that Hezbollah had to resort to a mass rally, just like the Lebanese
democracy movement's, is itself a victory for the democrats. Hezbollah clearly
felt that it must prove it is as popular a force as the democratic opposition.
But something tells me that those Hezbollah demonstrators who were waving the
picture of Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, were uncomfortable. And this is
Hezbollah's weak spot: deep down, it and its supporters know that when they
raise the pictures of Syria's president, they are raising the question of whose
interests they have at heart.

If democracy in Lebanon is going to re-emerge in a reasonably stable way,
Lebanese democratic forces have to constantly be inviting Hezbollah to join
them. After all, Hezbollah represents an important and powerful trend among
Lebanon's Shiites, most of whom are patriots eager to see Lebanon independent
and united. At the same time, though, the Lebanese democrats need to constantly
and loudly ask Hezbollah -- and get the U.N. and the European Union to
constantly and loudly ask Hezbollah -- ''Why are you waving the picture of the
Syrian president? Whose side are you on?''

President Bush should stay in the background and keep focused on defusing the
Arab-Israeli conflict, which will deprive Hezbollah of all its excuses to remain
armed. The impact on Hezbollah will be much more powerful if it's the Lebanese
democrats and the Saudis and the Europeans who ask Hezbollah over and over, ''Do
you have a real vision for a modern, progressive and pluralistic Lebanon? If so,
why are you waving the picture of the Syrian president?''

If Hezbollah puts down Assad's picture and comes up with an answer to that
question, that would be a big deal. If not, it could spell big trouble, which is
why Joseph Samaha wrote in Wednesday's Lebanese daily Al Safir, ''Yesterday was
the sort of day in which homelands are founded or destroyed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             413 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe's Shift On Embargo Places Taiwan At Center Stage

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 22


Reports of a shift in European plans to lift an arms embargo on China have sent
a sobering message to China's new leadership, underscoring the sensitivity of
its Taiwan policy and the continued dominance of the United States, Chinese
analysts say.

American and European officials said this week that the European Union might now
delay its plan to lift the embargo, imposed after China's crackdown on democracy
protests in 1989, until next year at the earliest, dealing a blow to one of
China's major foreign policy goals.

European diplomats cited China's newly adopted antisecession law and intense
American opposition to easing restraints on weapons sales to explain the shift.
The Chinese law adopted this month threatens military action if Taiwan pursues
formal independence from the mainland.

Few in China have openly criticized passage of the antisecession law, which
Beijing leaders argue is needed to stop Taiwan's drift toward independence. But
some foreign policy experts said the country was paying a high price for
codifying its longstanding threat to use force into law.

''No question, the antisecession law had a strong impact on European
sentiment,'' said Song Xinning, a professor at People's University who is one of
China's most prominent experts on European policy.

''The Europeans have said all along that the embargo is a problem they would
like to solve and that it is just a question of timing,'' Mr. Song said. ''Now,
this has become a very bad time.''

China's official position, repeated by a Foreign Ministry spokesman on Tuesday,
is that the European arms embargo and the antisecession law have no connection.
China says it wants the embargo removed because it amounts to an anachronistic
form of political discrimination. The antisecession law, according to the
official line, is aimed at maintaining peace in the Taiwan Strait.

Privately, some Chinese analysts say they now reckon that the law may have been
mishandled by the leadership under Hu Jintao, the Communist Party chief, who has
sought to strengthen his credentials by taking a tougher posture toward Taiwan.

It came as a discordant note at a time when relations with Taiwan were widely
viewed as improving. Some Chinese moderates on the Taiwan question argued that
the National People's Congress, the Communist Party-controlled legislature,
might have simply discussed a new law rather than enacting one, which was done
with little public debate.

''I think the leadership anticipated that they would get a strong reaction from
the parties most directly concerned, like Taiwan and the United States,'' said
Shi Yinhong, a foreign policy expert in Beijing. ''But I'm not so sure they
anticipated second- and third-degree reactions, as from Europe. So I think to an
extent this comes as a surprise.''

Just a few weeks ago, Beijing seemed close to achieving its ambition of removing
the embargo, which it views as inappropriate for a country of its rising
stature. After persistent Chinese diplomacy, France, Germany, Britain and other
European countries all signaled their willingness to remove the embargo by this
summer.

But sentiment shifted after President Bush visited Europe in February, where he
lobbied against the lifting of the embargo while also backing a highly
restrictive code of conduct on arms sales to replace it. Congress has appeared
ready to increase the stakes, threatening to punish any European companies that
sell arms to China and seek defense business in the United States.

Though European officials cited the antisecession law as the reason for
maintaining the embargo for the immediate future, some Chinese analysts say it
was the United States that played the decisive hand.

''The United States is worried about China's rise,'' said Pan Wei, a political
theorist at Beijing University. ''Most people think this is not really about
European opinion, but rather another strong indicator that the U.S. has an
unfriendly policy toward China.''

Mr. Pan argued that the antisecession law did not appreciably increase the risk
of war with Taiwan and may have diminished the risk if the law has the effect of
persuading Taiwan's leaders to refrain from seeking to legalize Taiwan's
independent status. But he said the United States used its sway to persuade
Europe not to upset the balance of power in a region that the United States
views as its military domain.

Mr. Song of People's University agreed that American influence had proved
effective. He said that even as some Chinese officials welcomed the prospect of
lifting the embargo earlier this year, he doubted it would occur anytime soon.

The reason, he said, is that the European Union must act by consensus. The
United States would not have a hard time persuading at least a minority of
member countries to keep the embargo in place, he said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             414 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kyrgyzstan Is Said to Threaten Force to Quell Protests

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER PALA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan, Thursday, March 24


Protests spread north to the Kyrgyz capital on Wednesday and opposition leaders
planned more demonstrations in the face of what they said were threats from the
authorities to fire live ammunition on the crowds.

Almaz Atanbayev, a longtime opposition leader who was preparing a protest for
Thursday afternoon, said early Thursday morning that he had received a call from
the prosecutor general, Murat Sutalinov. ''He told me that if the demonstration
takes place, they will shoot us and they will beat us up,'' Mr. Atanbayev said.

He vowed to go ahead with the protest anyway, saying, ''This is no bluff, it's a
serious threat, but we are ready to die for the people to be victorious in the
end.''

The threat by Mr. Sutalinov could not be confirmed early Thursday, although
other top Kyrgyz officials also warned that force could be used to restore
order.

Interior Minister Keneshbek Dushebayev said Wednesday the authorities had
''every right to take action, including by using physical force, special means
and firearms,'' Reuters reported. Mr. Dushebayev, a former Bishkek police chief
with a reputation for toughness, took over the post the same day that President
Askar Akayev fired his predecessor.

Protests have been growing in this former Soviet republic since runoff
parliamentary elections this month that have been widely condemned as
fraudulent. While most of the southern region -- separated from the north by a
high mountain range traversed by a single road -- has fallen under the control
of opposition protesters, the capital had been largely spared, along with most
of the more prosperous north, where Mr. Akayev has his roots.

The protest on Wednesday lasted only half an hour. The police dispersed several
hundred supporters of Bolat Maripov, an opposition leader and journalist, and
arrested about 30, including Mr. Maripov, he said in an interview. After the
country's ombudsman intervened, the authorities released the protesters and
agreed to drop charges of disobeying the police and holding an illegal
demonstration.

In the recent elections, Mr. Maripov ran against Bermet Akayeva, Mr. Akayev's
daughter, in a Bishkek constituency and lost, largely because of fraud, he said,
citing vote-buying and restrictions on campaigning.

The protest planned for Thursday is to start on the outskirts of the city and
culminate in a two-hour march to the White House, the government building in
which Mr. Akayev has his office.

A second demonstration is scheduled for Thursday in another part of Bishkek and
was being organized by Dr. Jenshibek Nazaraliev, who runs a well-known drug
rehabilitation clinic. Dr. Nazaraliev, who is something of a national celebrity
here, caused a stir when he denounced the elections and called for Mr. Akayev's
resignation.

In Washington, meanwhile, a State Department spokesman, Adam Ereli, said
Wednesday that the United States had urged the Kyrgyz government to avoid
violence and open a dialogue with the opposition. The message being sent by the
United States and other nations, he said, was that ''violence is not an
acceptable means for resolving differences.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arrests at a rally in Bishkek yesterday signaled Kyrgyz
officials' intent to keep protests from spreading north. (Photo by Misha
Japaridze/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             415 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Second Attack on Iraq Prison In 48 Hours Wounds 5 Iraqis

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 4


A suicide bomber driving a tractor blew himself up Monday near the gates of Abu
Ghraib prison west of Baghdad, wounding five Iraqi civilians in the second
attack on the prison in 48 hours, officials said.

The attack came as military officials announced that a small riot broke out
Friday at Camp Bucca, the other major American detainee camp in Iraq, south of
Baghdad.

Twelve detainees and four guards were slightly wounded at Camp Bucca, which
houses about 6,000 detainees. Detainees chanted, threw rocks and set several
tents on fire before the disturbance was brought under control, American
military officials said in a statement.

Camp Bucca, like Abu Ghraib, is close to its maximum capacity, American
officials have said. Last week, prison officials discovered two tunnels at Camp
Bucca, one of them 600 feet long, dug by prisoners in a failed attempt to
escape.

United States military officials also announced Monday that one American soldier
had been killed and one wounded when they came under small-arms fire in the
northern Iraqi city of Tal Afar on Saturday.

American authorities said they had few details about the Monday suicide attack
in Abu Ghraib. The blast was not close enough to damage the prison, where 3,400
detainees are held, said Lt. Col. Guy Rudisill, a spokesman for the detainee
system.

In the first attack on Abu Ghraib, on Saturday, a force of between 40 and 60
insurgents began a coordinated assault on the prison using suicide car bombs,
mortars, rocket-propelled grenades and small arms. No American service members
were killed in the attack, which lasted two hours, but 23 were wounded, 16 of
them slightly, military officials said Sunday. Thirteen detainees at the prison
were also wounded in the assault, which appears to have been an effort to break
the prisoners out.

An official in the Interior Ministry said Monday that the two attacks on the
prison may have been prompted in part by a letter that has circulated in Sunni
mosques around Baghdad in recent days. The letter purports to be from a woman
detained at Abu Ghraib prison who says she has been raped and dishonored by
American soldiers and begs insurgents to attack the prison and end her misery,
the official said.

The network of the Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi claimed
responsibility for both attacks in Internet postings. In one message, the group
said it had planned the main attack using ''inside intelligence information'' on
the prison, as well as photographs and surveys. The message described the attack
in detail, recounting four consecutive strikes from different directions, and
said 10 of the attackers had been killed.

Over all, the number of insurgent attacks has dropped over the past two months.
Last week, the number of recorded attacks per day dropped to below 30 for the
first time in a year, an American military official said.

However, the attack on Saturday was the second in recent weeks involving a large
body of insurgents, and it was carefully planned. That has led some commanders
to wonder whether insurgents may be changing their tactics or husbanding their
strength for larger attacks, the official said.

The American Embassy in Baghdad announced a reward Monday of up to $5 million
for information leading to the capture and conviction of Abdul Rahman Yasin, a
45-year-old American citizen of Iraqi descent who is believed to have played a
role in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center.

Mr. Yasin, who is believed to have helped in the construction of the bomb in
1993, is the last remaining fugitive wanted in connection with the attack. He
fled to Iraq after the attack, where he was arrested and imprisoned until late
2003 and then released along with many other criminals by the government of
Saddam Hussein, according to a statement released by the embassy. He is believed
to be hiding in the area of Samarra, north of Baghdad, the statement said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             416 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ecuador's New Chief Picks Cabinet; Leftist in Economic Post

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO; Carla D'Nan Bass contributed reporting from Quito for
this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, April 21


A day after President Lucio Gutierrez was driven from power, his successor,
Alfredo Palacio, named a new cabinet on Thursday, including a left-leaning
economy minister likely to appeal to poor Ecuadoreans, while working to gain
legitimacy with Washington and Ecuador's Latin American neighbors.

Mr. Gutierrez, 48, who was voted out of office by Congress on Wednesday and fled
the presidential palace in a helicopter, was granted asylum by Brazil, which on
Thursday evening was making arrangements to fly him out of the Ecuadorean
capital. The attorney general's office has issued a warrant for Mr. Gutierrez's
arrest for the deaths of two people killed this week in anti-government
demonstrations.

After days of violent street protests over what opponents called Mr. Gutierrez's
illegal overhaul of the Supreme Court, the capital was relatively quiet on
Thursday. Most Ecuadoreans, long accustomed to political tumult and short-lived
governments, returned to work. Still, despite a freezing rain, small but loud
groups of demonstrators, fuming at the politicians they say do little other than
sack the country, called for Mr. Palacio, who had been Mr. Gutierrez's vice
president, to resign.

''The reality is people are not happy,'' said Pedro Oscullo, 33, an artisan who
protested outside the presidential palace. ''We wanted to get the president out
but we wanted a new president with new ideas. This is just the same old
political parties taking over.''

In a country and region where sentiment against market-driven reforms is strong,
Mr. Palacio tried to cast himself as a different leader.

Speaking to reporters on Wednesday and Thursday, he and his economic minister,
Rafael Correa, criticized his predecessor's fiscal austerity measures and ties
to international lending institutions. Even before Mr. Palacio took over as
president, he had called it immoral for a country to use 40 percent of its
budget to service its debt, and his new government may reconsider the direction
of trade talks now under way with the United States. Mr. Palacio and his
ministers have criticized the government's fiscal responsibility law and have
said they would like to use oil money earmarked for the public debt to pay for
social spending. Mr. Palacio, who does not belong to a political party, also
stressed his independence.

''I am no politician,'' said Mr. Palacio, 66, a cardiologist who practiced in
the United States in the 1970's. ''I'm a simple doctor.''

Mr. Palacio, though, faces a host of obstacles in a chronically unstable country
that has a bitterly divided Congress, a citizenry fed up with corrupt and inept
politicians and, for the moment, no functioning Supreme Court. The new
government has yet to obtain international recognition, though political
analysts expect it.

''He has a new Cabinet but it's unclear how much support he has,'' said Fernando
Bustamante, a political analyst at San Francisco University in Quito. ''And
there are doubts about his legitimacy, especially abroad.''

Indeed, the United States has not recognized the new government, and the
Organization of American States has declined to support Mr. Palacio's
administration until it explains how the change in government meets
constitutional standards.

Traveling in Lithuania, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called for adherence
to the rule of law and seemed to suggest that early elections could help defuse
tensions. ''There needs now to be a constitutional process to get to
elections,'' she told Fox News.

In a vote that raised questions among some diplomats because it did not include
the full 100-member Congress, lawmakers voted 60 to 2 on Wednesday to remove Mr.
Gutierrez from power. Ecuadorean lawmakers based their vote on Wednesday on a
clause in the Constitution permitting the removal of a president for
''abandonment'' of his post. They justified the measure by arguing that Mr.
Gutierrez's efforts to control the Supreme Court violated the law and went
beyond the president's constitutionally mandated powers.

Mr. Palacio, a former health minister from coastal Guayaquil, Ecuador's economic
engine, is virtually unknown in the country. Joining Mr. Gutierrez's 2002
campaign for president -- when Mr. Gutierrez cast himself as a leftist man of
the people -- Mr. Palacio quickly broke with him once he won office.

For many Ecuadoreans and politicians here, the big question is whether Mr.
Palacio can unite a divided country behind his government while forming
political pacts with Ecuador's myriad parties.

Mr. Palacio's pledge to call a referendum in the next few months, the first step
toward a reform of the Constitution, will win him some supporters. But the new
president's steps have already ruffled some feathers, like the appointment of
Mr. Correa as economic and finance minister. Mr. Correa, an economist, has
criticized Ecuador's trade pacts, its deals with the International Monetary Fund
and its decision to replace its legal tender with the dollar.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside Brazil's embassy in Quito, where the deposed president
has taken refuge, a woman holds a picture of him that reads ''Wanted.'' (Photo
by Guillermo Legaria/European Pressphoto Agency)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             417 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 11, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Resisting the War

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators gathered in San Francisco yesterday to protest the
military's decisions to refuse to grant two Iraq war resisters, Sgt. Kevin
Benderman of the Army and Petty Officer Third Class Pablo Paredes of the Navy,
conscientious-objector status. Courts-martial are scheduled to begin today for
both the soldier and the sailor. The rally was one of several such events staged
yesterday around the country. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             418 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 17, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gunmen in Afghan Capital Kidnap Italian CARE Worker

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, May 16


An Italian woman who works for CARE International was abducted in central Kabul
on Monday evening, Afghan security officials said. It was the second kidnapping
of a foreigner in six months in Afghanistan and came after several days of the
worst anti-Western violence in the country since the American intervention in
the wake of Sept. 11, 2001.

The Afghan police say they have been closing in on a criminal gang thought to
have been behind the kidnapping of three United Nations staff members last
October and they have issued repeated warnings to foreigners that the gang was
planning another kidnapping in order to bargain for freedom for gang members
already in custody.

The kidnapping follows five days of demonstrations over reports of the
desecration of the Koran by American interrogators at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The
United Nations and international aid organizations have been the targets of some
of the protests and violence, causing rising concern among many of the 3,000 or
so foreigners living in Kabul.

The attack on Monday took place in a small street in Qala Musa, a small district
near a major mosque. The Italian woman and her driver had just dropped off a
colleague at her house and were moving off when a white sedan with four armed
men blocked their way, an Afghan intelligence official said.

Three men leaped out of the car, smashed the passenger window in the woman's car
and pulled her out, a neighbor said, recounting the story told him by the
driver. They put the woman in their car and drove off.

The driver then raised the alarm. His unmarked silver gray sedan still stood in
the street an hour later, as the police and foreign investigators searched for
clues. ''We have ordered all the gates of Kabul to be closed and for police to
watch carefully,'' said an Interior Ministry spokesman, Lutfullah Mashal.

An Italian Embassy official confirmed the kidnapping but declined to give
details. In Rome, a Foreign Ministry official identified the woman as Clementina
Cantoni from Lombardy, Reuters reported.

A spokesman for CARE in Kabul declined to comment, but Afghan officials said the
woman worked for the agency. CARE is one of the largest international aid
organizations working in Afghanistan, employing nearly 900 Afghans and a small
number of foreigners around the country.

Kidnapping has been infrequent in Afghanistan, but the abduction of three United
Nations election workers last year appeared to be motivated by political as well
as criminal reasons, as opponents of the government sent a signal of the havoc
they could cause.

Margaret Hassan, director of CARE in Iraq, died in a gruesome kidnapping and
execution last year.

Just last week, CARE issued a report about the deteriorating security in
Afghanistan, which it said was hampering the work of aid organizations here.
More than 40 Afghan and foreign aid workers have been killed in the country over
the last three years, the report said.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A police checkpoint in Kabul, Afghanistan, after armed men last
night kidnapped an Italian woman who works for CARE International. (Photo by
David Guttenfelder/Associated Press)
 Clementina Cantoni, in a recent but undated photo, is a victim of growing
anti-Western violence. (Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             419 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tales of Uzbek Violence Suggest Larger Tragedy

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS; Yola Monakhov contributed reporting from Tashkent for
this article, and Christopher Pala from Bishkek.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1335 words

DATELINE: KARADARIYA, Kyrgyzstan, May 18


One by one the women gave their tally.

Chased by gunfire, Mokhidilla Muladzhanova left behind three children, ages 15,
8 and 6. Noila Jumabayeva left behind two, ages 2 and 1. Rano Redzhapova left
behind five, including 12-year-old twins.

Perhaps the most agonizing bit of ill fortune befell Zulkhumar Muminova and
Nasibullo, her 3-year-old boy. He almost made it.

Ms. Muminova said she and the child survived hours of violence last Friday when
the government of Uzbekistan used gunfire to disperse a prison break and
antigovernment rally in the city of Andijon. And she said she managed to keep
together with the boy and her four other children during an all-night trek
toward the Kyrgyz border.

But just short of safety, she and several witnesses said, the Uzbek authorities
fired on them anew. ''All the people ran in different directions,'' she said.
''And I lost him, my son. I have not seen him again.''

Five days after an outbreak of violence consumed Uzbekistan's Fergana Valley,
the greatest challenge to the credibility and public stature of Islam A.
Karimov, the authoritarian president of Uzbekistan, can be found here among the
survivors, who live in 10 tents in a ravine a few hundred yards above the muddy
Karadariya River.

There are 540 Uzbek refugees registered in this camp. It is a group stalked by
uncertainties and memories of horror, and crowded with people who accuse Mr.
Karimov of lying to the world.

Mr. Karimov said on Tuesday that 32 soldiers and 137 other people had died in
the violence last week, and insisted that the authorities did not fire on women
or children. In lengthy interviews, however, the survivors say the number of
dead was much higher, and tell another story of the authorities' conduct.

They say that in the morning after armed men stormed the Andijon prison to free
23 businessmen that the demonstrators thought were unjustly accused of religious
extremism -- and 2,000 other inmates -- the Uzbek government abruptly cut off
negotiations with what had become a swelling antigovernment revolt.

Then, the survivors said, the authorities raked the crowds with fire from
machineguns mounted on armored personnel carriers, while snipers on at least two
nearby buildings shot down with precision rifle fire.

An odyssey ensued, the refugees say, as a mass of survivors fled in a shrinking
group northward, dropping off their wounded or those who could not go on at
homes along the way, until they almost reached the Kyrgyz border. Then, they
said, the Uzbek troops briefly fired on them once more.

At last the weary survivors negotiated their passage across the river with a
compassionate regional official, they said, and came to rest here, in the dust
and grass.

Some said they were still in a state of disbelief. ''Have all of our soldiers
become robots?'' asked Ms. Redzhapova, 36. ''They just follow orders? An old man
was killed. We saw it. An invalid was killed. We saw it. They just follow
orders?''

Around her, the camp pulsed with worry and emotional shock.

Some said they saw bullets strike their husbands or wives, and then did not see
them again. Others, like Ms. Muminova, became separated from their children, and
have no idea of their whereabouts now. Was Nasibullo picked up by soldiers? Was
he left to wander in the fields?

Mr. Muminova scanned across the river and the Uzbek barbed wire, to where the
boy had been. She did not know.

There are 96 women and children among those in the camp. The oldest refugee is
76 years old. Rhakhima Gofurdzhanova is the youngest. She is a year old.

Their fears have assumed many forms. Many survivors said they fled so hastily
that they left behind family members who had not been demonstrating on the
square, as did Ms. Muladzhanova, Ms. Jumabayeva and Ms. Redzhapova. All of these
people said they now worry that the Uzbek authorities will round up their
relatives for reprisals.

Tursunbai Nazarov, 47, one of the 23 businessmen who had been on trial, emerged
from a tent looking haggard and weary, the result, he said, of 11 months in
prison and seven or eight sustained beatings he suffered during interrogations.

He had been freed in the prison break last week. Now in Kyrgyzstan, he said his
wife, son and daughter remained in Andijon, and said he worried for their lives.

''The powers know my address, and may well go to my home at any time,'' he said.

Like claims by the Uzbek opposition that as many as 745 civilians were killed
last week, the accounts of survivors, while largely consistent with one another,
could not be independently confirmed, in part because the Uzbek portion of the
Fergana Valley is still almost entirely closed to unrestricted travel by
outsiders.

The survivors also moved quickly past any discussion of culpability among some
members of the antigovernment ranks. Many admitted, for instance, that the
protestors were armed last Friday and took hostages, but they also insisted that
no one who carried a weapon or committed a crime is among the refugees in
Kyrgyzstan.

Virtually everyone here called for the removal of Mr. Karimov, whose government
has been criticized for years for rigging elections, suppressing personal
freedoms, persecuting opponents and Muslims who practice their faith out of
state-sanctioned mosques, and systematically using torture.

''Our president has to resign,'' said Uktom Turanov, 29, a welder.

People here also called for an international investigation and trial of those
culpable for what they called a massacre. Uzbekistan, they said, cannot go
forward until the matter is resolved.

The demand was echoed on Wednesday by Britain's foreign secretary, Jack Straw,
who said on BBC that official Uzbek explanations have been inadequate, and
demanded that an ''international and independent inquiry'' examine the
circumstances surrounding the crackdown.

''It is of crucial importance for the stability of society in Uzbekistan, as
well as for the credibility of the government in Uzbekistan, that we get to the
bottom of what happened,'' he said.

The United Nations high commissioner for refugees also said an investigation was
necessary.

United States officials expressed concern and called for more openness. ''We
know that the American side cooperates with Uzbekistan; they are allies,'' said
Khassan Shakirov, 27, who said his brother was killed in Andijon when an Uzbek
security official shot him in the back. ''But we think that after this tragedy,
Americans should think twice before cooperating. Let their souls make a
judgment.'' The United States maintains a military base in Uzbekistan, and has
collaborated with Mr. Karimov in counterterrorism efforts.

Gen. John P. Abizaid, the top American commander in the Middle East and Central
Asia, said Wednesday that the United States had curtailed its operations at the
Khanabad air base in Uzbekistan.

In an interview with reporters in Washington, he said the move was intended to
protect American forces. ''It's not designed to be a political statement at
all,'' he said.

A spokesman at the American Embassy in Bishkek, the Kyrgyz capital, said the
embassy had provided $50,000 to the Paris-based Agency for Technical Cooperation
and Development, a nongovernmental agency, to provide food for the refugees.
''That amount should be enough for about two months if the number of refugees
doesn't increase,'' the spokesman said.

Rice, tea and bread were in the camp on Wednesday, as was soap. Since arriving
Saturday morning, the refugees have also been given blankets to cover dirt
floors of the tents and, in many cases, clothing.

What will happen to these refugees remained an open question. The camp was under
Kyrgyz guard, both to protect the refugees and to prevent them from leaving.
Officials said Uzbekistan might ask for them to be returned.

''The Uzbek side says we can keep them here for 10 days, and within 10 days the
Uzbek authorities will decide their fate,'' said Lt. Col. Pizulla Kendzhabayev,
of Kyrgyzstan's Ministry of Emergency Situations, who watched over the crowd.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of the Uzbek village of Karasu at the Kyrgyzstan
border yesterday. United Nations officials called for the border to remain open.
(Photo by Maxim Marmur/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Map of Kyrgyzstan
highlighting Karadariya: Uzbeks sought safety in Karadariya, on the border with
Kyrgyzstan.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             420 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Violence in Central Asia

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 330 words


A week ago, President Bush was traveling in the former Soviet Union, hailing
democratic change in the Baltics and Georgia. But he was strikingly restrained
when troops killed more than 100 demonstrators in another former Soviet
republic, Uzbekistan, whose leader, Islam Karimov, is a particularly repressive
Central Asian despot. The initial reaction from the White House and the State
Department was an admonition to the protesters to express their grievances
peacefully. Washington had no advice on what peaceful means might be effective
against a regime that -- according to that same administration -- boils
dissidents alive.

Mr. Karimov, a communist official who has held onto power since 1989 through
blatantly rigged elections and referendums, was among the first to recognize the
potential political bonanza of 9/11. He gave Washington the use of a former
Soviet air base for operations in Afghanistan, declared all his political
opponents to be Islamist terrorists and sat back to reap the rewards. They
included more than $500 million for security measures, visits by Donald Rumsfeld
and Colin Powell, and an invitation to the White House. Uzbekistan was
repackaged as a ''stable and moderate force'' by the State Department.

Mr. Karimov may crush the protests, in a poor region of eastern Uzbekistan, and
stay in power. The demonstrators did not specifically rise up to change the
government, as they did in Georgia, Ukraine and neighboring Kyrgyzstan. Still,
the protests might grow into a more menacing uprising, potentially spilling over
into Kyrgyzstan, which is trying to upgrade its democracy following the peaceful
ouster of President Askar Akayev in March.

The Bush administration, already struggling with a bad image in the Muslim
world, is belatedly saying ''very large numbers of civilians were killed by the
indiscriminate use of force.'' It should start looking into ways to cut off Mr.
Karimov immediately.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             421 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bashing Newsweek

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS.

E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 729 words


Maybe it won't be so bad being cut off from the blogosphere. I look around the
Web these days and find that Newsweek's retracted atrocity story has sent
everybody into cloud-cuckoo-land. Every faction up and down the political
spectrum has used the magazine's blunder as a chance to open fire on its
favorite targets, turning this into a fevered hunting season for the straw men.

Many of my friends on the right have decided that the Newsweek episode exposes
the rotten core of the liberal media. Dennis Prager, who is intelligent 99
percent of the time, writes, ''Newsweek is directly responsible for the deaths
of innocents and for damaging America.'' Countless conservatives say the folks
at Newsweek were quick to believe the atrocity tales because they share the
left-wing, post-Vietnam mentality. On his influential blog, Austin Bay writes
that the coastal media ''presume the worst about the U.S. military -- always
make that presumption.''

Excuse me, guys, but this is craziness. I used to write for Newsweek. I know
Mike Isikoff and the editors. And I know about liberals in the media. The people
who run Newsweek are not a bunch of Noam Chomskys with laptops. Not even close.
Whatever might have been the cause of their mistakes, liberalism had nothing to
do with it.

Meanwhile, the left side of the blogosphere has erupted with fury over the
possibility that American interrogators might not have flushed a Koran down the
toilet. The Nation and leftish Web sites are in a frenzy to prove that the story
is probably true even if Newsweek is retracting it.

This, too, is unhinged. Would it be illegal for more people on the left to
actually be happy that a story slurring Americans may turn out to be unproven?
Could there be a few more liberals willing to admit that prisoners routinely lie
about their treatment? (Do we expect them to say their time in captivity wasn't
so bad?)

Then I click my mouse over to the transcripts of administration statements and I
can't believe what I'm seeing. We're in the middle of an ideological war against
people who want to destroy us, and what have the most powerful people on earth
become? Whining media bashers. They're attacking Newsweek while bending over
backward to show sensitivity to the Afghans who just went on a murderous
rampage.

Talk about the bigotry of low expectations.

Maybe we should all focus on what's important. Newsweek's little item was seized
and exploited by America's enemies in a way that was characteristically cynical,
delusional and fascistic.

The people who seized upon this item, like the radical clerics in Afghanistan,
are cynical in the way they manipulate episodes like this to whip up hatred and
so magnify their own standing.

At the same time, they believe everything that could be alleged about America --
and more. They've spent so many years inhabiting a delusional mental landscape
filled with conspiracy theories and paranoia that you could drill deep into
their minds without ever touching reality.

Finally, they are strategically ruthless. Jeffrey Goldberg of The New Yorker,
who has spent years reporting on extremists, says they use manufactured spasms
of hatred to desensitize their followers. After followers spend a few years
living through rabid riots and vicious sermons, killing an American or a Jew or
even a fellow Muslim seems no more consequential than killing a mosquito. That's
how suicide bombers are made.

The rioters are the real enemy, not Newsweek and not the American soldiers
serving as prison guards. Just to restore some proper perspective, let me quote
a snippet from a sermon delivered by Sheik Ibrahim Mudeiris, which ran last
weekend on the Palestinian Authority's official TV station:

''The day will come when we will rule America. The day will come when we will
rule Britain and the entire world -- except for the Jews. The Jews will not
enjoy a life of tranquillity under our rule because they are treacherous by
nature, as they have been throughout history. The day will come when everything
will be relieved of the Jews -- even the stones and trees which were harmed by
them. Listen to the Prophet Muhammad, who tells you about the evil end that
awaits Jews. The stones and trees will want the Muslims to finish off every
Jew.''

These are the extremists, the real enemy. Let's keep our eye on the ball.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             422 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 20, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Best P.R.: Straight Talk

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 762 words


The fact that the White House spokesman Scott McClellan spent part of his
briefing on Tuesday excoriating Newsweek -- and telling its editors that they
had a responsibility to ''help repair the damage'' to America's standing in the
Arab-Muslim world -- while not offering a single word of condemnation for those
who went out and killed 16 people in Afghanistan in riots linked to a Newsweek
report, pretty much explains why we're struggling to win the war of ideas in the
Muslim world today. We are spending way too much time debating with ourselves,
or playing defense, and way too little time actually looking Arab Muslims in the
eye and telling them the truth as we see it.

In part this is because we are so dependent on their oil -- and addicts never
tell the truth to their pushers. In part this is because the administration got
so carried away by the vote in the Iraqi elections that it lost focus. (We don't
even have an ambassador in Iraq at this critical juncture, when it is so
important that an ethnically balanced Iraqi government be formed. But don't
worry -- John Bolton is going to reform the U.N.)

And in part this is because we are afraid to say the truth, because we --
wrongly -- believe these people are incapable of rational thought and will just
react violently. Therefore, if we have an information campaign, it must all be
about explaining to them who we are, and why we are not bad people, and why
Newsweek made a mistake. It must never involve us asking who they are and why
they are behaving in ways that don't live up to the values they profess.

Instead of sending Mr. McClellan out to flog Newsweek, President Bush should
have said: ''Let me say first to all Muslims that desecrating anyone's holy book
is utterly wrong. These allegations will be investigated, and any such behavior
will be punished. That is how we Americans intend to look in the mirror. But we
think the Arab-Muslim world must also look in the mirror when it comes to how it
has been behaving toward an even worse crime than the desecration of God's
words, and that is the desecration of God's creations. In reaction to an
unsubstantiated Newsweek story, Muslims killed 16 other Muslims in Afghanistan
in rioting, and no one has raised a peep -- as if it were a totally logical
reaction. That is wrong.

''In Iraq, where Shiite, Kurdish and Sunni Muslims are struggling to build a
pluralistic new order, other Muslims, claiming to act in the name of Allah, are
indiscriminately butchering people, without a word of condemnation coming from
Muslim spiritual or political leaders. I don't understand a concept of the
sacred that says a book is more sacred than a human life. A holy book, whether
the Bible or the Koran, is only holy to the extent that it shapes human life and
behavior.

''Look, Newsweek may have violated journalistic rules, but what jihadist
terrorists are doing in Iraq and Afghanistan -- blowing up innocent Muslims
struggling to build an alternative society to dictatorship -- surely destroys
the Koran. They are the real enemies of Islam because they are depriving Muslims
of a better future. From what I know of Islam, it teaches that you show
reverence to God by showing reverence for his creations, not just his words. Why
don't your spiritual leaders say that? I am asking, because I want to know.''

Fortunately, a few courageous Arab intellectuals, such as Abderrahman al-Rashed,
have asked such things. Writing in Wednesday's Saudi daily Asharq Al Awsat, he
said: ''When thousands in Afghanistan are concerned about a report in a magazine
that does not reach them, written in a language they do not speak, leading them
to protest in a manner unprecedented among other Islamic nations that do speak
English, the matter is worth pursuing further: it tells us more about the
dangers of propaganda and its exploitation by opposition groups than it does
about spontaneous popular sentiments.''

And a few days ago, a group of Iraqi journalists actually went to Jordan and got
right in the face of Jordanian columnists and editors, demanding to know why
they were treating Muslim mass murderers in Iraq like anticolonial war heroes.
It's already changed the tone. That's the war of ideas.

The greatest respect we can show to Arabs and Muslims -- and the best way to
help Muslim progressives win the war of ideas -- is to take them seriously and
stop gazing at our own navels. That means demanding that they answer for their
lies, hypocrisy and profane behavior, just as much as we must answer for ours.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             423 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Newsweek Furor: Let's Stay on Focus

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 118 words



To the Editor:

Without in any way minimizing the degree of culpability by Newsweek for the
riots and mayhem in which 17 people were killed, David Brooks correctly pointed
to the ''real enemy'' -- ''the radical clerics in Afghanistan'' and those
Muslims eager to capitalize on their anti-American agenda to instigate and
perpetuate the fury of impressionable and volatile Muslim populations.

When ''moderate'' Muslims finally evince feelings of revulsion at and
condemnation of horrific and brutal rampages by suicide bombing attacks on
innocent people, terrorism may finally lose its traction and ability to derail
hopes for establishing stable democracies in the region.

Fay Dicker
Lakewood, N.J., May 19, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             424 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesters, Both Jewish and Arab, Rail at the First Lady

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, May 22


Laura Bush found herself immersed in the passions of the Middle East on Sunday,
as her carefully devised trip to places holy to both Muslims and Jews attracted
small numbers of vocal protesters.

Mrs. Bush, on the third day of a five-day trip to the region, faced
demonstrators at the Dome of the Rock and the Western Wall in Jerusalem. ''You
are not welcome here!'' shouted a woman near the Dome of the Rock. ''Why are you
hassling our Muslims?'' She apparently referred to the mistreatment of prisoners
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and in Afghanistan. Another woman said loudly: ''Koran!
Koran!''

Later in Jericho Mrs. Bush spoke of ''what an emotional place this is as we go
from each one of these very, very holy sites to the next.'' After meeting
separate groups of Israeli and Palestinian women, she said: ''What we all want
is peace, and the chance that we have right now to have peace. To have a
Palestinian state living by a secure state of Israel, both living in democracy,
is as close as we've been in a really long time.'' The process would take ''a
lot of baby steps, and I'm sure it will be a few steps backward on the way.''

The United States would help, she said. But ''it also requires the work of the
people here, of the Palestinians and the Israelis, to come to the table,
obviously, and we'll see.''

The main purpose of Mrs. Bush's visit to the region was to attend the World
Economic Forum meeting on Saturday in Jordan, where she highlighted education
and women's rights as central to democracy in the Middle East, a major theme of
the Bush administration. But President Bush had encouraged her to visit Israel
at the same time, and her schedule was carefully planned to provide parallel
gestures to both Palestinians and Israelis.

The Noble Sanctuary is known to Jews as the Temple Mount, and it is a
potentially explosive spot of earth. It is the place where the first two ancient
Jewish temples stood, the last destroyed by the Romans, and the Dome of the Rock
is built over the place where the Prophet Muhammad is believed to have ascended
to heaven.

By the time Mrs. Bush, dressed in a black pantsuit with a black shawl over her
hair, left the Muslim shrine, where about 20 protesters had gathered, the small
crowd of onlookers seemed to better understand who this visitor was and pressed
closer.

Mrs. Bush was surrounded by American security personnel and Israeli police
officers who pushed back the crowd as she walked to her motorcade. She was never
in danger, but the large presence of armed Israeli police officers, some in riot
gear, angered the demonstrators.

Israeli security officials fear right-wing Israelis may attack the sacred
Islamic structures here, either to try to rebuild the temple or to cause a new
conflict between Palestinians and Israelis that could derail the plan to pull
Israeli settlers out of Gaza. So tensions were high, and Mrs. Bush's visit, a
rare one by an American dignitary, drew a larger police presence than usual.

The ancient man-made plateau also overlooks the Western Wall, the last surviving
retaining wall of the Second Temple and a holy site for Jews, which Mrs. Bush
also walked through protesters to visit.

She leaned against the massive stones, hot with the bright sun, trying to ignore
the crush of photographers, shutting her eyes and praying, then putting a
private note -- another prayer -- into a crack in the wall. Her aides said she
wrote the note on the flight on Sunday morning from Jordan, but wanted to keep
the contents to herself.

At the Western Wall another small crowd of protesters shouted for the release of
Jonathan Pollard, an American Jew who was convicted of spying for Israel, and
who was recently visited in prison by the Israeli ambassador to Washington,
Danny Ayalon.

Mrs. Bush spent an important part of her day Sunday in conversation with a group
of well-known Palestinian women, including the legislator Hanan Ashrawi; the
Palestinian minister for Jerusalem Affairs, Hind Khoury; Jihad Abu Zneid of the
Shufat refugee camp's women's center; and Terry Boullata, an educator from East
Jerusalem.

The women spoke to Mrs. Bush of the difficulties of the Israeli occupation for
their daily lives, including numerous checkpoints and the separation barrier
Israel is building to protect itself from suicide bombers, aides to the first
lady said. Ms. Boullata, for example, according to the aides, spoke of how the
barrier meant that a 2-minute trip to her school for many children now took 30
minutes. Also on Sunday, the Israeli Army said it intercepted at a checkpoint a
Palestinian teenager trying to smuggle two explosive belts into Israel.

Mrs. Bush also spent nearly an hour touring the new Holocaust History Museum at
Yad Vashem, where she laid a wreath to the dead and wrote in the visitors' book:
''Each life is precious,'' adding: ''We commit ourselves to reject hatred and to
teach tolerance and live in peace.''

She said the visit to the region had been ''very emotional for me and very
moving to be here and to see these sites that are very important to me as a
Christian, that are in the Old Testament,'' and also important to Muslims and
Jews, that represent ''the cradle of what we think of in our country and around
the world as religious thought.'' She heads to Egypt on Monday.

The Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, flew to the United States on Sunday to
try to explain his Gaza withdrawal to American Jewish organizations. On the
plane, he denied reports that he was contemplating more delays in the pullout,
and said it would start on Aug. 16 or 17.

In Jordan, at the World Economic Forum meeting Mrs. Bush had attended, the
Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Aboul Gheit, said Egypt was talking with Israel
about deploying up to 2,000 troops along the border between Egypt and Israel, in
addition to 750 policemen to be deployed along Egypt's border with the Gaza
Strip, to ensure strict border control to guarantee an orderly Israeli
withdrawal, Reuters reported. Israel is nervous about arms smuggling into Gaza,
but also about Egypt's remilitarizing the Sinai; Egypt is worried about a Gaza
where Hamas, the radical Islamic group, has too much influence.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Bush inside the Dome of the Rock yesterday. The Islamic
shrine is atop the mount that includes the Western Wall, revered by Jews. (Pool
photo by Evan Vucci)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             425 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2005 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Preaching to the Choir? Not This Time

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; White House Letter; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It's that time of year again when President Bush turns up around the country in
sumptuous commencement robes, assures thousands of college graduates that a C
average does not preclude the presidency and urges them to go forth and do good.

Calvin College, a small evangelical school in the strategic Republican
stronghold of Grand Rapids, Mich., seemed a perfect stop on Saturday for the
president's message. Or so thought Karl Rove, the White House political chief,
who two months ago effectively bumped Calvin's scheduled commencement speaker
when he asked that Mr. Bush be invited instead.

But events at Calvin did not happen as smoothly as Mr. Rove might have liked. A
number of students, faculty members and alumni objected so strongly to the
president's visit that by last Friday nearly 800 of them had signed a letter of
protest that appeared as a full-page advertisement in The Grand Rapids Press.
The letter said, in part, ''Your deeds, Mr. President -- neglecting the needy to
coddle the rich, desecrating the environment and misleading the country into war
-- do not exemplify the faith we live by.''

The next day, Mr. Bush was greeted by another letter in The Press signed by some
100 of 300 faculty members that objected to ''an unjust and unjustified war in
Iraq'' and policies ''that favor the wealthy of our society and burden the
poor.''

At first glance, it seemed as if a mainstay of Mr. Bush's base, the Christian
right, had risen up against him. At second glance, the reality was more complex.
The protests at Calvin showed that Mr. Bush's evangelical base was not
monolithic and underscored the small but growing voice of the Christian left.

That movement, loosely defined as no more than several million of some 50
million white evangelicals, opposes abortion and generally supports traditional
marriage. But as a group it is against the Iraq war, the administration's tax
cuts, Mr. Bush's environmental policies and, not least, the close identification
of evangelicals with the current White House.

A leader of the Christian left is Jim Wallis, the editor and founder of the
Christian political magazine Sojourners and the author of ''God's Politics: Why
the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It.'' Mr. Wallis, whose book
has been on the New York Times best-seller list for the past 15 weeks, appeared
at Calvin College on May 5 and is advising Democrats on how to appeal to
religious voters.

''The monologue of the religious right is over,'' Mr. Wallis said in an
interview before Mr. Bush's appearance. ''There is a progressive, moderate
evangelical constituency that is huge.''

Others see the group as a far less powerful force, but they acknowledge that the
Christian left cannot be a cheery development for Mr. Rove. ''Were this movement
to continue to grow, it could create some problems, probably not for President
Bush but for future Republican candidates,'' said John C. Green, the director of
the Ray Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron and an
expert on the voting patterns of religious groups. In short, Mr. Green said,
''Democrats have an opportunity to get some votes.''

One question is whether Mr. Rove knew what he was getting into when he asked
that Mr. Bush be invited to Calvin, a theologically conservative college in the
tradition of the Christian Reformed Church that is politically more progressive
than other evangelical colleges. (Faculty members estimate that about 20 percent
of students opposed Mr. Bush in 2004.)

Mr. Rove secured the invitation through Representative Vernon J. Ehlers, the
Republican who represents Grand Rapids and who attended Calvin.

''I think they understood the nature of Calvin,'' said Jon Brandt, Mr. Ehlers's
press secretary, who also attended Calvin. ''The White House isn't stupid.''

That would be the view of Corwin Smidt, a political science professor at Calvin
and the director of the Henry Institute for the Study of Christianity and
Politics. Mr. Bush's visit, he said, was both ''rewarding the faithful'' who
voted for him in 2004 and a strategic positioning for 2006.

That is when Dick DeVos, an heir to the Amway fortune and a member of a Michigan
family that has been a major contributor to the Republican Party and Calvin
College, may challenge Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Democrat. Republicans will
also try next year to unseat another Democrat, Senator Debbie Stabenow.

As for Mr. Bush, his commencement address on Saturday drew no protests in the
Calvin field house other than from students who wore buttons that proclaimed
''God is not a Democrat or a Republican.''

One other small objection came from the bumped commencement speaker, Nicholas
Wolterstorff, a Democrat, a former Calvin academic and a recently retired
philosophy of religion professor at Yale. Dr. Wolterstorff said in an interview
last week, ''Here's a Yale professor being bumped by a Yale graduate with a very
average college record.'' He said he planned to stay home and garden in Grand
Rapids instead of attending the president's speech.

Dr. Smidt, a Republican, had a different view of the presidential visit. ''I do
think it's an honor for the college,'' he said. ''Even if Bill Clinton had come
at the height of Monica Lewinsky, I don't think I would have objected then,
either.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 2005



CORRECTION: The White House Letter column on May 23, about the opposition
encountered by President Bush when he was asked to speak at the commencement of
Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., misstated the academic background of Jon
Brandt, press secretary to Representative Vernon J. Ehlers, the Michigan
Republican who arranged the invitation. Mr. Brandt graduated from Michigan
State, not from Calvin.



GRAPHIC: Photo: A Calvin College student wore her feelings on her mortarboard
during President Bush's speech. (Photo by Jeff Kowalsky/European Pressphoto
Agency)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             426 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 26, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Documents Say Detainees Cited Abuse of Koran

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25


Newly released documents show that detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, complained
repeatedly to F.B.I. agents about disrespectful handling of the Koran by
military personnel and, in one case in 2002, said they had flushed a Koran down
a toilet.

The prisoners' accounts are described by the agents in detailed summaries of
interrogations at Guantanamo in 2002 and 2003. The documents were among more
than 300 pages turned over by the F.B.I. to the American Civil Liberties Union
in recent days and publicly disclosed Wednesday.

Unlike F.B.I. documents previously disclosed in a lawsuit brought by the civil
liberties union, in which agents reported that they had witnessed harsh and
possibly illegal interrogation techniques, the new documents do not say the
F.B.I. agents witnessed the episodes themselves. Rather, they are accounts of
unsubstantiated accusations made by the prisoners during interrogation.

On Wednesday, the Pentagon dismissed the reports as containing no new evidence
that abuses of the Koran had actually occurred and said that on May 14 military
investigators had interviewed the prisoner who mentioned the toilet episode to
the F.B.I. and that he was not able to substantiate the charge.

The accusation that soldiers had put a Koran in a toilet, which has been made by
former and current inmates over the past two years, stirred violence this month
that killed at least 17 people in Muslim countries after Newsweek magazine
reported that a military investigation was expected to confirm that the incident
had in fact occurred.

Newsweek retracted the report last week, saying it had relied on an American
government official who had incomplete knowledge of the situation.

None of the documents released Wednesday indicate any such confirmation that the
incident took place.

One document released Wednesday is an Aug. 1, 2002, memorandum from an agent
whose name is deleted that recounts a pair of interviews the previous month with
a prisoner whose name is also deleted.

The prisoner said that ''the guards in the detention facility do not treat him
well,'' the agent wrote. ''Their behavior is bad. About five months ago, the
guards beat the detainees. They flushed a Koran in the toilet. The guards dance
around when the detainees are trying to pray. The guards still do these
things.'' The document does not indicate whether the agent believed the account.

The documents include several other accounts of detainees' complaints about
disrespectful handling of the Koran, but none describe its being flushed in a
toilet.

Bryan Whitman, the deputy Pentagon spokesman, said Wednesday that the newly
released document, a summary of an interrogation, ''does not include any new
allegations, nor does it include any new sources for previous allegations.'' Mr.
Whitman said the source of the accusation ''is an enemy combatant.''

Since the Newsweek article was published, the Pentagon has been reviewing
records, but ''we still have found no credible allegations that a Koran was
flushed down a toilet at Guantanamo,'' Mr. Whitman said.

Until the new batch of documents was released, no previously released F.B.I.
documents were known to have mentioned abuse of the Koran of the type Newsweek
reported.

Earlier complaints came in statements of inmates after they were released from
custody or, more recently, in statements of current inmates to their lawyers.

Another memo released Wednesday, dated March 18, 2003, is an account by an agent
whose name is deleted who writes that another detainee told him of purposely
disrespectful handling of the Koran. The detainee acknowledged, according to the
memo, that he did not witness any of the incidents he had discussed.

The agent reports that the detainee said the use of the Koran as a tool in
interrogation had been a mistake. ''Interrogators who had taken the Koran from
individual detainees as a reprisal or incentive to cooperate had failed,'' the
detainee said, adding that the only result would be ''the damage caused to the
reputation of the United States once what had occurred was released to the
world.''

Jameel Jaffer, a senior lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union who is
coordinating the review of documents obtained in the group's civil suit against
the military, said the documents were part of more than 300 new pages received
last Thursday from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He said staff members
spent days reviewing the documents.

Ken Weine, a spokesman for Newsweek, said the magazine would have no comment on
the disclosures.

The disclosures Wednesday did not support the specific assertions in the
original Newsweek item that military investigators concluded that a Koran had
been flushed down a toilet. They do, however, reinforce the contentions of human
rights advocates and lawyers for detainees that accusations of purposeful
mishandling of the Koran were common.

A former interrogator told The New York Times in a recent interview that
friction over handling of the Koran began with guards' regular searches of the
cells. ''Some of it was just ignorance,'' the former interrogator said,
insisting on anonymity because soldiers are barred from discussing camp
operations. ''They didn't realize you shouldn't handle the book roughly.''

Though complaints about the handling of the Koran were routine, the former
interrogator said, the situation eventually escalated. ''It was two things that
brought the desecration issue to a higher level,'' the former interrogator said.
''The rumor spread among detainees that a Koran had been flushed down a toilet
and that some interrogators brought Korans to the interrogation sessions and
stood on them, kicked them around.'' The former interrogator had not witnessed
those occurrences.

Erik Saar, co-author of ''Inside the Wire'' (Penguin Press, 2005) and an Arabic
language translator in 2003 in Guantanamo said in a recent interview that ''the
detainees actually liked to complain about how the Koran was handled because
they viewed it as a cause to rally around'' and one that would get the attention
of the camp's authorities.

Mr. Jaffer of the A.C.L.U. said the errors in the Newsweek report had been
improperly used to discredit other information about abusive practices at
Guantanamo ''that were not based on anonymous sources, but government documents,
reports written by F.B.I. agents.''

The new documents and 30,000 pages previously released were disclosed as part of
a suit brought by the A.C.L.U. and other groups trying to learn whether and what
kinds of coercive tactics were used at Guantanamo.

The earlier release of reports in which bureau agents recounted witnessing harsh
interrogations resulted in an investigation by an Air Force general of
interrogation practices. That report, which was completed at the end of March,
has not yet been released by the Pentagon.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photo: ''Past Detainee Statements''Excerpts from documented
interviews with Guantanamo Bay detainees referring to the treatment of the
Koran:Excerpts are:DATED APRIL 11, 2002DATED AUGUST 1, 2002DATED AUGUST 9,
2003(pg. A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             427 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 28, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Honors a Friend

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 370 words


It was as repellent as it was unsurprising that Beijing lavished honors the
other day on Uzbekistan's blood-stained tyrant, Islam Karimov. Less than two
weeks earlier, Mr. Karimov's troops fired into crowds of demonstrators, killing
well over 100, including many unarmed civilians. China's leaders would not have
had a big problem with that, since they are products of a system that behaved
much the same way in Tiananmen Square in 1989.

But China likes more than Mr. Karimov's methods of crowd control. It likes the
sweeping way he has branded all political opponents Muslim terrorists, the same
approach China applies to its restive Uighur minority in Xinjiang Province, near
Uzbekistan's borders. Perhaps most important, it views Uzbekistan as a vital
corridor for funneling oil and natural gas to Chinese industries.

China isn't the only country romancing Mr. Karimov. Russia courts him, too. And,
at least until the latest massacre, the United States has been wooing him as
well, despite Mr. Karimov's lengthy record of gruesome human rights abuses and
his unrelenting hostility to the democratic values that President Bush insists
are at the center of American foreign policy. The Pentagon has a base there that
it would like to keep, and American aid, under the broad label of antiterrorism
assistance, still flows to some of the regime's armed enforcers, including
border guards and the ministry in charge of the internal security police. Not
many countries have managed to have Beijing, Moscow and Washington all competing
for their affection.

It is time for the United States to drop out of this ugly game and distance
itself from Mr. Karimov. The Uzbekistan base was important in the early phases
of the war in Afghanistan. Now that the United States has bases in a
democratizing Afghanistan itself, the need for an airfield in Uzbekistan is far
less acute. Nor, with Moscow no longer posing any military or ideological
threat, is there any obvious need for Washington to tolerate unpleasant allies
along Russia's borders. Mr. Bush would best serve America's security needs in
Central Asia by honoring our nation's democratic principles.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             428 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rights Group Calls Deadly Uzbek Crackdown a 'Massacre'

BYLINE: By C.J. CHIVERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 7


Uzbekistan's crackdown on a prison break and mass protest last month has been
labeled a massacre in a report by a prominent human rights group, which says
responsibility for many of the deaths lies with the Uzbek government.

The group, Human Rights Watch, based in New York, issued the report on Tuesday,
providing the most extensive independent review to date of the failed uprising
in the northeastern Uzbek city of Andijon.

Drawing from interviews with more than 50 witnesses, it corroborates and expands
upon previous reports of a brief armed revolt that became an antigovernment
protest, which the authorities broke up with rifle and machine-gun fire.

The report also provides accounts from two witnesses of Uzbek troops moving
among the bodies on the street the morning after the crackdown, shooting wounded
people who had survived the night. ''There was a systematic effort to
slaughter,'' said Kenneth Roth, the organization's executive director.

The violence in Andijon on May 13 has fueled renewed worries about the stability
of Uzbekistan, a repressive post-Soviet state that is an ally of the Bush
administration in the fighting in Afghanistan and other counterterrorism
efforts.

With the release of the report, Human Rights Watch renewed calls by several
international organizations and Western governments for an independent
investigation.

Uzbekistan had flatly refused to allow such an investigation in the weeks after
the crackdown but has since signaled it might offer limited cooperation. State
Department officials say they are not yet sure what degree of cooperation the
Uzbek government would consent to.

Human Rights Watch also urged the United States to suspend negotiations for a
long-term American presence at the Uzbek air base, situated near the Afghan
border, unless Uzbekistan accepted an investigation. ''There is something
unseemly, to say the least, about negotiations for a base agreement with a
country that has just massacred hundreds of its own citizens,'' Mr. Roth said.

Also on Tuesday, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Geneva-based
aid organization, announced that it still had not yet been able to get access to
those injured and arrested in the crackdown, in spite of repeated attempts.

The committee noted that many Uzbeks still do not know whether their missing kin
are dead or injured or were arrested or fled. It said a response from the Uzbek
government ''has become urgent.''

The Uzbek government has shown flashes of intransigence toward Western
organizations in recent weeks. On Monday the United States Peace Corps announced
that it had suspended its program in the country after the Uzbek Foreign
Ministry denied visas to the corps' volunteers.

Uzbekistan, strategically situated but economically underdeveloped, has been
racked by ruinous economic policies, corruption, clan rule and harsh
restrictions on freedom of expression, assembly and conscience. The United
Nations has criticized it for its extensive use of torture.

Since the crackdown, it has defended itself with a mix of defiance and blame
directed at the armed men who raided the prison.

Human Rights Watch said those men, whose number it estimated at 50 to 100, had
committed serious crimes. But it said the government response was indiscriminate
and out of proportion.

The report echoed another independent report, written by the Brussels-based
International Crisis Group, which found no public evidence that the revolt was
led by Islamic extremist groups or had religious aims.

The Uzbek president, Islam A. Karimov, has insisted, without providing public
evidence, that the uprising was carried out by international terrorist groups
that seek to create an Islamic state. Human Rights Watch said it found no
evidence of the president's assertion.

''The protesters spoke about economic conditions in Andijon, government
repression and unfair trials and not the creation of an Islamic state,'' the
report says. It described the crowd as shouting ''Freedom!'' and not ''God is
Great!''

Spokesmen for Uzbekistan's Foreign Ministry did not return several phone calls
on Tuesday.

Mr. Roth said an investigation would be important in part because many details
of the uprising remained unknown, including the number of victims, the
identities of all the armed units present at the crackdown and the nature and
origin of orders given to troops who fired into the crowds.

Human Rights Watch did not estimate the number of dead, and avoided endorsing
opposition accounts of as many as 745 dead civilians, which have not been
independently verified. But it dismissed the official Uzbek claim of 173 dead,
writing that ''hundreds'' were killed on one street alone.

The report also noted Uzbek efforts to restrict the flow of information about
the crackdown, and to intimidate and harass witnesses.

Fears for the safety of witnesses have intensified since a Radio Free
Europe/Radio Liberty correspondent's report last month of being led by a local
guide to a mass grave outside Andijon; the next day, the radio service said, the
guide was fatally stabbed.

There have also been broader fears about safety for Westerners in the country.
Last week, the American Embassy in Uzbekistan authorized the departure of
nonessential embassy staff and family members, citing new terrorist threats.

On Tuesday, the embassy expanded the warning, advising embassy personnel not to
send their children to school for the rest of the school year.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Uzbek soldiers in Andijon during violence on May 13, which Human
Rights Watch yesterday called a massacre, faulting the government. (Photo by
Efrem Lukatsky/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             429 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

MOOD OF ANXIETY ENGULFS AFGHANS AS VIOLENCE RISES

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, June 29


The loss of a military helicopter with 17 Americans aboard in eastern
Afghanistan on Tuesday comes at a time of growing insecurity here. For the first
time since the United States overthrew the Taliban government three and a half
years ago, Afghans say they are feeling uneasy about the future.

Violence has increased sharply in recent months, with a resurgent Taliban
movement mounting daily attacks in southern Afghanistan, gangs kidnapping
foreigners here in the capital and radical Islamists orchestrating violent
demonstrations against the government and foreign-financed organizations.

The steady stream of violence has dealt a new blow to this still traumatized
nation of 25 million. In dozens of interviews conducted in recent weeks around
the country, Afghans voiced concern that things were not improving, and that the
Taliban and other dangerous players were gaining strength.

An American Chinook helicopter that crashed on Tuesday was brought down by
hostile fire as it was landing during combat in a mountainous border area,
American military officials said Wednesday. [Page A14.]

Afghans interviewed about the continuing violence also expressed increased
dissatisfaction with their own government and the way the United States military
was conducting its operations, and said they were suspicious of the Americans'
long-term intentions.

''Three years on, the people are still hoping that things are going to work out,
but they have become suspicious about why the Americans came, and why the
Americans are treating the local people badly,'' said Jandad Spinghar, leader of
the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission in Nangarhar Province in the
east, just across the Khyber Pass from Pakistan.

Poverty, joblessness, frustrated expectations and the culture of 25 years of war
make for a volatile mix in which American military raids, shootings and
imprisonments can inflame public opinion, many here say.

''Generally people are not against the Americans,'' Mr. Spinghar said. ''But in
areas where there are no human rights, where they do not have good relations and
where there is bad treatment of villagers or prisoners, this will hand a free
area to the Taliban. It's very important that the Americans understand how the
Afghan people feel.''

Reflecting the shifting popular mood, President Hamid Karzai has publicly
criticized the behavior of American troops and called for closer cooperation
when Afghan homes are raided.

The Taliban's spring offensive has sounded an alarm for the United States
military and the Karzai government, both of which had said that the Taliban were
largely defeated and that the nation was consolidating behind its first elected
national leader.

''We were wrong,'' a senior Afghan government official acknowledged, saying of
the Taliban, ''It seems they were spending the time preparing.'' He insisted on
anonymity because of the delicacy of the subject within the government.

While the government blames the Taliban -- and its backers in Pakistan and Al
Qaeda -- for the violence, the American military is frequently blamed by Afghans
for drawing radical Islamic fighters to the country and then failing to control
them.

''The Americans are the cause of the insecurity,'' said Abdullah Mahmud, 26, a
law student in Kabul. ''If they were not here, there would not be any
insecurity. The money they are spending on military expenses -- if they spent
half of it on the Afghan Army and police and raised their skills, then there
would not be any security questions.''

Opponents of the government are calling for foreign troops and international aid
organizations to leave Afghanistan, a call that has resonated with Afghans'
spirit of independence. The government, though, is anxiously seeking assurances
that the foreign troops and assistance will stay and help it through this latest
wave of adversity.

During the anti-American protests that followed allegations that guards at
Guantanamo Bay had desecrated the Koran, Kabul's students demonstrated against
the establishment of permanent United States military bases in Afghanistan, said
Muhammad Mir Jan, 25, a literature student. ''Students support the current
presence of troops because we need them now,'' he said, ''but not a permanent
presence.''

An unemployed man sitting in a corner shop in Jalalabad with a group of friends
said of the Americans, ''They should go.'' But others demurred.

''No, I think the Americans should be here, because if they are not, the
warlords would come back again and the poor people would not be able to survive
in this country,'' said Samiullah, 27, who said he was applying for a job as a
driver with a foreign group.

Abdul Zaher, 26, the owner of the shop, said, ''They should not leave our
country until they have rebuilt it.''

Sayed Asadullah Hashimi, an assistant professor at Kabul University's School of
Islamic Law, said, ''Outside Kabul, two-thirds of the people think that the
Americans came only to invade and occupy Afghanistan, and that is why day by day
the tension is growing. The mood is worsening.''

With parliamentary elections approaching in September, the issue of the American
military presence is already emerging at the forefront of political debate.
Foreign diplomats are forecasting that the election will deliver a Parliament
divided on ethnic lines and largely anti-Karzai, with a strong element of jihadi
leaders and Islamists.

President Karzai will have to change his cabinet, now largely made up of
technocrats, to reflect the makeup of Parliament, said one diplomat, who asked
not to be identified because of the political nature of his comments.

The current instability does not yet add up to a national uprising. The Taliban
movement remains restricted to a narrow core of believers and a larger number
who are motivated by money more than anything else, Afghan and foreign officials
said. But they warned that it would be dangerous to ignore the signs of unrest.

Changes have often come suddenly in Afghanistan's turbulent history, frequently
catching outsiders by surprise: the slaughter in the Khyber Pass of retreating
British forces in the 19th century; the kidnapping and killing of the American
ambassador in 1979; and the Russian debacle after 10 years of brutal occupation
in the 1980's.

The airlift of foreign aid workers from Jalalabad after a day of rioting last
month raised the specter of the Afghans turning against foreigners once more.

Afghans interviewed this week frequently warned that if the American forces did
not show greater care, especially in their treatment of detainees and their
families, the people could turn against them. ''They should respect our culture
and our religion and they will be successful,'' said Lal Muhammad, the senior
partner of a real estate firm in the southern city of Kandahar.

His partner, Taher Shah, said the United States should not overestimate the
extent of its own power. ''The Americans are very powerful and they can control
the government,'' he said. ''But if the people don't like them, they will have
to leave.''

Foreign officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicate
nature of the issue, said much of the public disillusionment and frustration was
traceable to a lack of governance -- from the simple absence of government, to
the failure to administer the law properly, to the corruption of the local
police and the courts.

''Since 2002,'' one of the officials said, ''we have been issuing warnings that
the main threat was the failure to address profound governance problems, and if
we did not take it seriously, grievances would start to stem from that.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An American soldier and an Afghan translator interrogated an
Afghan on Sunday in Zabul Province. Reflecting a shift in popular mood,
President Hamid Karzai has begun to criticize the behavior of American troops.
(Photo by Tomas Munita/Associated Press)(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             430 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Summit Leaders Still Differ And Protesters Still Protest

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1169 words

DATELINE: LONDON, July 4


With some signs of discord after a weekend of free rock concerts and celebrity
urgings to end Africa's poverty, politicians and protesters prepared Monday for
the Group of 8 summit meeting later in the week.

The leaders of eight major industrial nations are to meet Wednesday through
Friday at the luxurious Gleneagles golf estate north of Edinburgh, preoccupied
by two main subjects -- climate change and relieving African poverty through
changes in policies on trade, aid and debt.

In Edinburgh on Monday police officers drawn from the estimated 10,000 on duty
to guard the meeting fought running scuffles with several hundred
antiglobalization protesters. No injuries were reported.

In an interview broadcast Monday on British television, President Bush seemed to
damp any expectation that he might reward Prime Minister Tony Blair, the
conference host, for his support in the American effort to prevent terrorism.

''I really don't view our relationship as one of quid pro quo,'' Mr. Bush said.
''Tony Blair made decisions on what he thought was best for keeping the peace
and winning the war on terror, as I did. So I go to the G-8 not really trying to
make him look bad or good but with an agenda that I think is best for our
country.''

Mr. Bush is generally seen to be at odds with Britain and most other members of
the group on accepting the scientific evidence relating to the causes of global
warming, and thus on the need for immediate steps to reduce emissions of
greenhouse gases. Indeed, the United States is held by other group members to be
the world's biggest polluter.

Mr. Bush's remarks seemed to conflict with a forecast on Sunday by President
Jacques Chirac of France that the member countries -- the others are Canada,
Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia -- were ''heading toward an agreement'' on
global warming.

At a news conference in London on Monday, Sir Michael Jay, Mr. Blair's
representative at talks by senior officials in advance of the meeting, said
climate change ''was never going to be an easy discussion,'' and added, ''There
are differences of opinion, particularly about the science.''

Asked about speculation that the meeting might split over climate change and
produce two final statements -- one of them representing the United States' view
and one agreed by the others -- he said, ''I'm not going to rule in or rule out
anything.''

Mr. Bush maintained his opposition to deals like the Kyoto Protocol, which set
targets for lowering greenhouse gas emissions and which the United States has
refused to accept.

''If this looks like Kyoto, the answer is no,'' he said. ''The Kyoto agreement
would have wrecked our economy. I think you can grow your economy and at the
same time do a better job of harnessing greenhouse gases. That's exactly what I
want to talk to our partners about.''

His only apparent softening lay in remarks during the interview that climate
change represented a ''significant long-term issue that we've got to deal with''
and that the problem was ''to some extent'' a result of human actions.

At other talks in advance of the summit meeting, Group of 8 countries have
apparently made some progress on increasing aid to Africa and canceling debt.
But trade, said Sir Michael, the British representative, ''is going to be one of
the most difficult issues.''

In part, that is because a change in trade rules would affect huge farm
subsidies in both the United States and the European Union -- an area in which
Mr. Bush seemed to suggest the Europeans had more changes to make than the
United States.

''We've got agricultural subsidies, not nearly to the extent that our friends in
the E.U. have,'' he said.

In support of more aid for Africa, campaigners like the former rock singer Bob
Geldof urged the leaders to heed the voices of millions of people who flocked to
rock concerts across the globe over the weekend or took to the streets. More
than 200,000 people demonstrated on Saturday in Edinburgh to reinforce the
slogan: Make Poverty History.

''We are asking them to be great,'' Sir Bob said on Monday, referring to the
eight leaders. He said it would be a ''grotesque failure'' if the summit meeting
failed to make a breakthrough.

In Edinburgh, by Monday night, the police said, about 60 people had been
arrested after skirmishes between protesters and officers wielding transparent
riot-shields. The day of protests paralyzed Princes Street, a main thoroughfare
near Edinburgh Castle. Witnesses said that the police, some on horseback,
confronted protesters throwing paving stones and park benches. Television showed
young children and shoppers caught up in the fray.

The fighting raised worries among officers about the next few days, when tens of
thousands more protesters plan to arrive in Edinburgh and attend a rock concert
as the summit meeting formally opens on Wednesday. The police said the violence
had been set off by a number of protesters, including some from around Europe.

Protesters had billed a march through the city as a carnival, but Tom Halpin, a
senior Scottish police officer, said the event had not been authorized. ''Those
involved were determined to cause as much disruption as possible,'' he told
reporters. ''We are facing a hard core of determined activists, supported by
hangers-on.

The leaders of several African countries, including South Africa, Nigeria,
Ethiopia, Tanzania, Ghana, Senegal and Algeria, are to meet Friday with Group of
8 leaders.

African leaders gathered Monday in Libya for a summit meeting of the African
Union, whose president, Alpha Oumar Konare of Mali, said Africa would take part
in this year's major development meetings ''proud, united and showing
solidarity,'' Agence France-Presse reported.

But he voiced some skepticism: ''Too many promises have been made to us in the
course of too many meetings, but none has ever been honored.''

                             --------------------


Mad Cows and Englishmen

 (By The New York Times) PARIS, July 4 -- President Chirac joked about mad cow
diseases and bad English food during a conversation on Sunday in Kaliningrad
with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of
Germany, the French daily Liberation reported Monday.

''The only thing they [the British] have ever done for European agriculture is
mad cow,'' Mr. Chirac joked, eliciting laughter from Mr. Schroder and Mr. Putin,
the newspaper said. As for British food, Mr. Chirac apparently said, ''You can't
trust people who cook as badly as that.''

Asked to comment on the remarks, Mr. Chirac's chief spokesman, Jerome Bonnafont,
said, ''No reaction whatsoever.''

Relations between France and Britain have been even more strained than usual
after the collapse of a European Union summit meeting last month in which Mr.
Chirac and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain blamed each other for its
failure. Mr. Blair is determined to cut European Union farm subsidies, which
mainly benefit France, while Mr. Chirac and other leaders want Britain to give
up a generous rebate it receives each year.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of Global Call to Action Against Poverty gathered
yesterday in Edinburgh with tools of protest: masks of the Group of 8 leaders.
(Photo by Carl De Souza/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Sixty demonstrators were arrested yesterday in Edinburgh but no injuries were
immediately reported. (Photo by Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             431 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 21, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Remembering the Games That Were Barely There

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; OLYMPICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 983 words


Twenty-five years ago, the Summer Olympics in Moscow were in their third day,
but they were barely visible in the United States. Short reports, produced by a
small crew from NBC Sports, were being sent to the ''Today'' show and the
network's stations, but the 150 hours of programming originally scheduled was
scrapped after America led a boycott to protest the Soviet Union's invasion of
Afghanistan.

This would have been NBC's first Olympics since the 1972 Winter Games in
Sapporo, Japan, when it paid $6.4 million to broadcast 32 hours.

But only eight years later, the Olympics had gotten bigger. For Moscow, NBC
announced in February 1977 that it would pay $87 million, more than three times
the previous high of $25 million that ABC Sports paid to carry 63 hours from the
1972 Munich Summer Games.

All these years later, what happened in 1980 seems like a curious period piece:
an Olympics staged during the cold war in the Soviet Union, less than a decade
before its collapse. The number of hours that NBC was to broadcast is puny
compared with the 1,210 it showed on seven broadcast and cable networks last
year from Athens.

And in another sign that times have changed, Moscow lost its attempt earlier
this month to bring the Summer Games back in 2012.

The negotiations for the Moscow Games were complex -- CBS and ABC were players,
as well -- and alien to an uneducated NBC corporate management, said Chet
Simmons, who was the No. 2 executive at NBC Sports. ''It was the first time NBC
had stepped up for a major chunk of the Olympics,'' he said by telephone. ''It
was in a foreign place. They wondered if we had the right people to do it. And
how they could recoup this huge investment.''

He added that NBC's top executives did not understand how the Olympics were
produced or what made ABC's productions, under Roone Arledge, so successful.
Simmons had worked with Arledge in the early 1960's at the company that became
ABC Sports.

NBC's production was to be overseen by two of Arledge's disciples at ABC Sports,
Don Ohlmeyer and Geoff Mason. Mason was stationed in Paris for ABC when NBC
wooed him with an offer to work on the Moscow Games.

''Don and I met for three days in Palm Springs in early 1977, and we wrote the
bible for how to program everything in the Olympics,'' Mason said in an
interview from Orlando, Fla. ''It was our template: every wire, every camera,
every tape machine, every person, every minute of program time.''

Bryant Gumbel was to be the prime-time anchor; he would eventually do the
voiceovers for the two-minute reports that were sent daily from Moscow.

Dick Enberg, Donna de Varona and Bruce Jenner, the 1976 Olympic decathlon gold
medalist, were to be among the network's commentators.

For nearly three years after buying the TV rights, NBC dispatched producers and
technicians to survey Moscow and Leningrad. Mike Weisman, who would have
produced the track and field events, said that he and others had assumed that
their Soviet drivers and government liaisons were spies.

''I spent days looking for a bug in my room,'' Weisman, who was the executive
producer of NBC's Seoul Summer Olympics coverage in 1988, said in a telephone
interview. ''One day, I felt something hard under an area rug and there's this
metal cylinder. I said, 'This must be the bug. I'll flush it down the toilet!'
It's glued to the floor, so I pull and pull, and I finally yank it from the
floor and there's a crash underneath me. The chandelier in the room below me
crashed to the floor.''

But the work of about 40 NBC people in Moscow and another 12 in New York went
mostly for naught. ''We were getting cranked up when Jimmy Carter got
involved,'' Mason said, referring to the president's decision that January to
boycott the Games.

Bob Levy, a director in New York, said that Mason called him shortly after the
boycott was announced to say that he would still be on Olympic duty. ''I said,
'What?''' Levy, now at Fox Sports, said from Los Angeles. ''I had taken that
obligation out of my brain.''

Levy and others said that NBC needed to produce and televise the brief reports
-- in spite of the absence of the United States Olympic team -- to satisfy the
obligations of its insurance policy, which required it to carry the Games. The
relatively little amount of coverage sent from Moscow was enough for NBC to cash
in on the policy.

''It was the most depressing time of my life,'' said Mason, who was with ABC
through five Olympics. ''It was very frustrating. We had all this wonderful
stuff.''

And almost no place to use it.

Peter Diamond, another ABC alumnus who went to NBC as an associate producer, in
research, said from his New York office: ''It was hugely disappointing, but one
of the great adventures of my life. Just watching all those events go by in the
control room was thrilling. It was a wild Olympics, with Nadia Comaneci against
the Soviets, the Coe-Ovett races. I'm sure the United States would have been
enthralled by it all.''

Comaneci won two gold medals in gymnastics in Moscow, adding to the three she
won when she electrified Montreal four years earlier. In their 800-meter
matchup, Steve Ovett beat his British countryman Sebastian Coe, who won the
silver; when they faced each other in the 1,500 meters, Coe beat Ovett, who won
bronze. Earlier this month, Coe helped lead London to its winning bid for the
2012 Games.

''Our intention was to do what we'd always done at ABC,'' said Diamond, now a
senior vice president for Olympic programming at NBC. ''It certainly would have
been bigger than Munich, the previous Summer Games in Europe. It was
disappointing, interesting and something you'll never forget.''

For Mason, there are few good memories. ''I was there for two months all told,''
he said, ''and left the day after, and in my alcoholic fog, left all my luggage
at the airport and never saw it again. I've never been back.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             432 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Riot Toll Mounts in Sudan After Rebel Leader's Death

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: NEW SITE, Sudan, Aug. 3


Rioting and tit-for-tat killings continued in Sudan's capital, Khartoum, on
Wednesday, as southerners upset with the death of the rebel leader John Garang
clashed with northern Arabs and government security forces struggling to restore
order.

The death toll from three days of unrest in Khartoum and its suburbs approached
100, according to local authorities and relief agencies. There were reports of
gangs of people, some carrying clubs, knives and guns, marauding through the
streets, even well after a government-imposed dusk-to-dawn curfew.

The imam of a mosque outside of Khartoum was killed, the United Nations
reported. Northern Muslims, crying ''God is great!'' in Arabic, were seen
setting upon black African southerners.

The ugly scenes represented the worst fears after Vice President Garang's death
on Saturday night in a helicopter crash, which the authorities have insisted was
an accident caused by foul weather, not an act of sabotage as some southerners
claim.

Officials tried to soothe riled tempers in broadcasts urging Sudanese not to
allow the collapse of the peace agreement between the Islamist government of the
north and Mr. Garang's southern rebel movement.

''I urge all the good people among you to bury the strife,'' President Omar
al-Bashir said in an address over state television.

Mr. Garang's replacement as chairman of the rebel movement, Salva Kiir Mayardit,
made a similar plea from the southern town of New Site, where he received a
steady stream of international visitors making condolence calls.

''We want this situation to be stopped as soon as possible,'' said Mr. Kiir,
calling the rioters ''enemies of peace'' who were tarnishing Mr. Garang's
legacy.

The violence stood in marked contrast to the spirit of peace that seemed so
prevalent in much of Sudan just days ago. In January, a peace agreement that
halted the two-decade civil war and made Mr. Garang vice president also brought
hopes for a solution to the country's other long-running conflict, in the
western Darfur region.

The upsurge in violence seemed to tear at those people involved in the long
negotiations to quell the north-south war, which was the longest-running civil
conflict in Africa.

''To fail in Dr. John's vision is to fail Dr. John,'' Roger Winter, the American
government's top envoy to Sudan said during a visit here, using Mr. Garang's
nickname. Mr. Garang was educated in the United States and earned a doctorate in
economics at Iowa State University in 1981.

An emotional Mr. Winter gave Mr. Garang's widow, Rebecca, a tight hug in the
tent where she is mourning with relatives and friends. Mr. Winter and Constance
Newman, the assistant secretary of state for African affairs, also embraced Mr.
Kiir.

''He was special,'' Mr. Winter said of Mr. Garang, a man he first met in the
late 1980's, well before the Sudanese rebel movement gained significant support
in the United States. ''We came to love each other in this manly way that comes
when you have mutual respect and common vision.''

The sudden death of such a significant American ally has raised worries in
Washington, and not just because the outbreak of violence raised the possibility
of the unraveling of the historic peace deal that Mr. Garang struck with
Khartoum in January.

The Bush administration had long counted on Mr. Garang to play a crucial part in
resolving another rebel insurgency, the crisis in Darfur.

With his death has come concerns that the Darfur conflict would slip down on the
agenda, according to several diplomats who spoke without attribution to avoid
stoking the tense situation.

In his new role, Mr. Kiir tried to address concerns about Darfur after a
closed-door meeting with Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma of South
Africa.

''There can be no peace in Sudan when there is fighting going on in Darfur and
eastern Sudan,'' Mr. Kiir said, repeating one of Mr. Garang's frequent refrains.
''Our commitment is that guns must be silenced in the whole country.''

At the same time, Mr. Kiir, who has spent most of his 54 years as a rebel,
expressed clear sympathies with other Sudanese who have taken up arms against
their government.

''People fight to address the grievances that are not being addressed on the
table like the one we are sitting,'' he said. ''When you claim your rights and
are not given them, you resort to violence as a way of expressing your
discomfort.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Sudanese police patrolled in Khartoum yesterday, the third
day of riots after the death of Vice President John Garang in a copter crash.
Gangs were said to be marauding in the streets with clubs, knives and guns.
(Photo by Khaled Desouki/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             433 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2005 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 126 words


An article on Saturday about Cindy Sheehan, the antiwar protester whose son died
in Iraq and who is camped out near President Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex.,
quoted incorrectly from remarks about her by Bill O'Reilly, the Fox News
television host. Mr. O'Reilly did not call Ms.

Sheehan treasonous. His comment, during his program on Tuesday, referring to
applause for her cause on an antiwar Web site, was, ''I think Ms. Sheehan bears
some responsibility for this, and also for the responsibility of other American
families who have lost sons and daughters in Iraq, who feel that this kind of
behavior borders on treasonous.'' And on Wednesday he added, ''I said some
families who also lost loved ones in Iraq believe what she's doing borders on
treason.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             434 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Soldier's Mother Waits in Crawford

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 83 words



To the Editor:

Cindy Sheehan and other parents of soldiers slain in Iraq are camped outside
President Bush's ranch to ask Mr. Bush a question we all deserve to have
answered: What exactly is the ''noble cause'' their children died for in Iraq?

Refusing to meet with the grieving parents camped outside his ranch betrays a
lack of conviction. If Mr. Bush's war in Iraq is truly ''noble,'' why is he
afraid to defend it to a mother who gave her son to the cause?

Leonard Sklar
Albany, Calif., Aug. 13, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             435 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protester Vows to Continue Her Vigil Near Bush Ranch

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Aug. 16


Cindy Sheehan, the mother of a soldier killed in Iraq who has set up a vigil
near President Bush's ranch, said Tuesday that she was ''very disturbed'' that a
local resident had mowed down hundreds of small crosses bearing the names of
other dead American soldiers, and that her now 10-day protest was ''only the
beginning'' of what she described as a growing national movement to bring all
American men and women home from the war.

Ms. Sheehan also said she would soon be moving her increasingly crowded roadside
encampment, named Camp Casey after her son, to a large tract even closer to the
president's ranch. ''A kind gentleman from down the road offered us the use of
his property,'' Ms. Sheehan told reporters on Tuesday night. Ms. Sheehan
identified the man as Fred Mattlage, whom she described as a distant cousin of
Larry Mattlage, a local resident who fired a shotgun across the road from the
encampment on Sunday afternoon.

Ms. Sheehan said the property, which is near a Secret Service checkpoint about a
mile from Mr. Bush's ranch, would have plenty of space for the parked cars that
have jammed the roadside. Fred Mattlage could not be reached on Tuesday to
confirm Ms. Sheehan's account.

In the meantime, a group of Mr. Bush's neighbors appeared before the McLennan
County Commission on Tuesday morning asking that a no-parking zone near the
president's ranch be expanded, which would effectively force the camp to move to
the town of Crawford, seven miles away. Neighbors have complained of traffic
jams and blocked roads, and some said they worried about the safety of their
children, who started school on Tuesday.

On Monday night, the police arrested a local resident who had used a truck to
mow down about half of the 500 small wooden crosses hammered into the roadside
dirt. The crosses were put back in place by Ms. Sheehan's supporters on Tuesday
morning.

''What happened last night is very disturbing to all of us, and it should be
really disturbing to America,'' Ms. Sheehan said on Tuesday morning. ''Because
no matter what you think about the war, we should all honor the sacrifice of the
ones who have fallen. And to me it's so ironic that I'm accused of dishonoring
my son's memory, by doing what I'm doing, by the other side, and then somebody
comes and does this.''

Ms. Sheehan, who has vowed not to leave until Mr. Bush comes off his ranch and
speaks to her, said that if local residents wanted her to leave, ''they should
talk to their neighbor, George Bush, and tell him to talk to us.'' Mr. Bush did
meet with Ms. Sheehan in June 2004, but she has said that the president was
disrespectful to her by referring to her as ''Mom'' throughout the meeting.

Mr. Bush has since said he is sympathetic to Ms. Sheehan, 48, of Vacaville,
Calif., whose son, Casey, an Army specialist, was killed at age 24 in Baghdad on
April 4, 2004. On Tuesday a White House spokeswoman, Dana Perino, affirmed Mr.
Bush's words, and said that while the president disagreed with Ms. Sheehan's
views, ''he says he respects her right to peacefully protest.''

Another Plea to the President

  CLEVELAND, Aug. 16 (AP) -- The day after burying their son, parents of a
fallen marine urged President Bush to either send more reinforcements to Iraq or
to withdraw all American troops.

''We feel you either have to fight this war right or get out,'' Rosemary Palmer,
the mother of the marine, Lance Cpl. Edward Schroeder II, said Tuesday.

Corporal Schroeder, 23, died two weeks ago in an explosion. He was one of 16
Ohio-based marines killed over three days in Iraq.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a demonstration near President Bush's ranch in Crawford,
Tex., Kathy Nikeef carried crosses memorializing Americans killed in Iraq.
(Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             436 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Soldier's Mother Waits in Crawford

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 78 words



To the Editor:

Re ''Mother's Grief-Fueled Vigil Becomes Nexus for Antiwar Protesters'' (news
article, Aug. 13):

I have long believed that that no real progress will be made in shaking
President Bush's illusionary rationalizations for his war in Iraq until the
families of military personnel speak out publicly against this tragic
enterprise.

I hope that Cindy Sheehan will become the Rosa Parks of the Iraq antiwar
movement.

William Stableford
Madison, Conn., Aug. 14, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             437 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2005 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

War Protester Leaves Texas to See Ailing Mother

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Aug. 18


Cindy Sheehan, the mother of an American soldier killed in Iraq who is in a
monthlong protest near President Bush's ranch, said Thursday that she was
temporarily leaving her encampment to be with her mother, who suffered a stroke.

In a statement to reporters, Ms. Sheehan, 48, said that she received word around
4 p.m. that her mother, Shirley Miller, 74, was in a hospital emergency room in
Los Angeles.

''As you can imagine, this is a devastating blow for my sister, my brother, my
children and me,'' Ms. Sheehan said in her statement.

Ms. Sheehan told reporters that she would return to Texas as soon as possible,
and that while she was gone, mothers of others killed in Iraq would keep
pressure on Mr. Bush and continue to demand a meeting with him here. The group
wants all American troops immediately withdrawn from Iraq.

Ms. Sheehan's group is moving from a temporary encampment on the side of the
road about two miles from Mr. Bush's ranch to a larger pasture, offered by a
local landowner, that is only a mile from the ranch and adjacent to a Secret
Service checkpoint. Ms. Sheehan has been here since Aug. 6, and on Wednesday
night she inspired candlelight vigils around the country.

In a speech earlier Thursday in Springfield, Mo., Vice President Dick Cheney
acknowledged the ''irreplaceable'' losses of families of soldiers who have been
killed in Iraq but insisted that the war would help guarantee freedoms both in
the United States and the Middle East.

''In this difficult and necessary cause we have lost some of our finest
Americans,'' Mr. Cheney said at a convention of the Military Order of the Purple
Heart. ''That loss is irreplaceable, and no one can take away the sorrow that
has come to the families of the fallen.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cindy Sheehan got a show of support yesterday before her trip.
(Photo by L.M. Otero/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             438 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Swift Boating of Cindy Sheehan

BYLINE: By Frank Rich.

Nicholas D. Kristof and David Brooks are on vacation.

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1574 words


CINDY SHEEHAN couldn't have picked a more apt date to begin the vigil that
ambushed a president: Aug. 6 was the fourth anniversary of that fateful 2001
Crawford vacation day when George W. Bush responded to an intelligence briefing
titled ''Bin Laden Determined to Attack Inside the United States'' by going
fishing. On this Aug. 6 the president was no less determined to shrug off bad
news. Though 14 marine reservists had been killed days earlier by a roadside
bomb in Haditha, his national radio address that morning made no mention of
Iraq. Once again Mr. Bush was in his bubble, ensuring that he wouldn't see Ms.
Sheehan coming. So it goes with a president who hasn't foreseen any of the
setbacks in the war he fabricated against an enemy who did not  attack inside
the United States in 2001.

When these setbacks happen in Iraq itself, the administration punts. But when
they happen at home, there's a game plan. Once Ms. Sheehan could no longer be
ignored, the Swift Boating began. Character assassination is the Karl Rove
tactic of choice, eagerly mimicked by his media surrogates, whenever the White
House is confronted by a critic who challenges it on matters of war. The Swift
Boating is especially vicious if the critic has more battle scars than a
president who connived to serve stateside and a vice president who had ''other
priorities'' during Vietnam.

The most prominent smear victims have been Bush political opponents with heroic
Vietnam resumes: John McCain, Max Cleland, John Kerry. But the list of past
targets stretches from the former counterterrorism czar Richard Clarke to
Specialist Thomas Wilson, the grunt who publicly challenged Donald Rumsfeld
about inadequately armored vehicles last December. The assault on the
whistle-blower Joseph Wilson -- the diplomat described by the first President
Bush as ''courageous'' and ''a true American hero'' for confronting Saddam to
save American hostages in 1991 -- was so toxic it may yet send its perpetrators
to jail.

True to form, the attack on Cindy Sheehan surfaced early on Fox News, where she
was immediately labeled a ''crackpot'' by Fred Barnes. The right-wing
blogosphere quickly spread tales of her divorce, her angry Republican in-laws,
her supposed political flip-flops, her incendiary sloganeering and her
association with known ticket-stub-carrying attendees of ''Fahrenheit 9/11.''
Rush Limbaugh went so far as to declare that Ms. Sheehan's ''story is nothing
more than forged documents -- there's nothing about it that's real.''

But this time the Swift Boating failed, utterly, and that failure is yet another
revealing historical marker in this summer's collapse of political support for
the Iraq war.

When the Bush mob attacks critics like Ms. Sheehan, its highest priority is to
change the subject. If we talk about Richard Clarke's character, then we stop
talking about the administration's pre-9/11 inattentiveness to terrorism. If
Thomas Wilson is trashed as an insubordinate plant of the ''liberal media,'' we
forget the Pentagon's abysmal failure to give our troops adequate armor (a
failure that persists today, eight months after he spoke up). If we focus on
Joseph Wilson's wife, we lose the big picture of how the administration twisted
intelligence to gin up the threat of Saddam's nonexistent W.M.D.'s.

The hope this time was that we'd change the subject to Cindy Sheehan's ''wacko''
rhetoric and the opportunistic left-wing groups that have attached themselves to
her like barnacles. That way we would forget about her dead son. But if much of
the 24/7 media has taken the bait, much of the public has not.

The backdrops against which Ms. Sheehan stands -- both that of Mr. Bush's
what-me-worry vacation and that of Iraq itself -- are perfectly synergistic with
her message of unequal sacrifice and fruitless carnage. Her point would endure
even if the messenger were shot by a gun-waving Crawford hothead or she never
returned to Texas from her ailing mother's bedside or the president folded the
media circus by actually meeting with her.

The public knows that what matters this time is Casey Sheehan's story, not the
mother who symbolizes it. Cindy Sheehan's bashers, you'll notice, almost never
tell her son's story. They are afraid to go there because this young man's life
and death encapsulate not just the noble intentions of those who went to fight
this war but also the hubris, incompetence and recklessness of those who gave
the marching orders.

Specialist Sheehan was both literally and figuratively an Eagle Scout: a church
group leader and honor student whose desire to serve his country drove him to
enlist before  9/11, in 2000. He died with six other soldiers on a rescue
mission in Sadr City on April 4, 2004, at the age of 24, the week after four
American security workers had been mutilated in Falluja and two weeks after he
arrived in Iraq. This was almost a year after the president had declared the end
of ''major combat operations'' from the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln.

According to the account of the battle by John F. Burns in The Times, the
insurgents who slaughtered Specialist Sheehan and his cohort were militiamen
loyal to Moktada al-Sadr, the anti-American Shiite cleric. The Americans
probably didn't stand a chance. As Mr. Burns reported, members of ''the new
Iraqi-trained police and civil defense force'' abandoned their posts at
checkpoints and police stations ''almost as soon as the militiamen appeared with
their weapons, leaving the militiamen in unchallenged control.''

Yet in the month before Casey Sheehan's death, Mr. Rumsfeld typically went out
of his way to inflate the size and prowess of these Iraqi security forces,
claiming in successive interviews that there were ''over 200,000 Iraqis that
have been trained and equipped'' and that they were ''out on the front line
taking the brunt of the violence.'' We'll have to wait for historians to tell us
whether this and all the other Rumsfeld propaganda came about because he was
lied to by subordinates or lying to himself or lying to us or some combination
thereof.

As The Times reported last month, even now, more than a year later, a
declassified Pentagon assessment puts the total count of Iraqi troops and police
officers at 171,500, with only ''a small number'' able to fight insurgents
without American assistance. As for Moktada al-Sadr, he remains as much a player
as ever in the new ''democratic'' Iraq. He controls one of the larger blocs in
the National Assembly. His loyalists may have been responsible for last month's
apparently vengeful murder of Steven Vincent, the American freelance journalist
who wrote in The Times that Mr. Sadr's followers had infiltrated Basra's
politics and police force.

Casey Sheehan's death in Iraq could not be more representative of the war's
mismanagement and failure, but it is hardly singular. Another mother who has
journeyed to Crawford, Celeste Zappala, wrote last Sunday in New York's Daily
News of how her son, Sgt. Sherwood Baker, was also killed in April 2004 -- in
Baghdad, where he was providing security for the Iraq Survey Group, which was
charged with looking for W.M.D.'s ''well beyond the admission by David Kay that
they didn't exist.''

As Ms. Zappala noted with rage, her son's death came only a few weeks after Mr.
Bush regaled the Radio and Television Correspondents' Association banquet in
Washington with a scripted comedy routine featuring photos of him pretending to
look for W.M.D.'s in the Oval Office. ''We'd like to know if he still finds
humor in the fabrications that justified the war that killed my son,'' Ms.
Zappala wrote. (Perhaps so: surely it was a joke that one of the emissaries Mr.
Bush sent to Cindy Sheehan in Crawford was Stephen Hadley, the national security
adviser who took responsibility for allowing the 16 errant words about doomsday
uranium into the president's prewar State of the Union speech.)

Mr. Bush's stand-up shtick for the Beltway press corps wasn't some aberration;
it was part of the White House's political plan for keeping the home front cool.
America was to yuk it up, party on and spend its tax cuts heedlessly while the
sacrifice of an inadequately manned all-volunteer army in Iraq was kept out of
most Americans' sight and minds. This is why the Pentagon issued a directive at
the start of Operation Iraqi Freedom forbidding news coverage of ''deceased
military personnel returning to or departing from'' air bases. It's why Mr.
Bush, unlike Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter, has not attended funeral services
for the military dead. It's why January's presidential inauguration, though
nominally dedicated to the troops, was a gilded $40 million jamboree at which
the word Iraq was banished from the Inaugural Address.

THIS summer in Crawford, the White House went to this playbook once too often.
When Mr. Bush's motorcade left a grieving mother in the dust to speed on to a
fund-raiser, that was one fat-cat party too far. The strategy of fighting a war
without shared national sacrifice has at last backfired, just as the strategy of
Swift Boating the war's critics has reached its Waterloo before Patrick
Fitzgerald's grand jury in Washington. The 24/7 cable and Web attack dogs can
keep on sliming Cindy Sheehan. The president can keep trying to ration the
photos of flag-draped caskets. But this White House no longer has any more
control over the insurgency at home than it does over the one in Iraq.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             439 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

War Critics and Their Detractors

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 65 words



To the Editor:

Cindy Sheehan will always represent a grieving mother. That is something no
media campaign can obliterate.

Because she took such a public stand, she has come to represent all the grieving
moms who have lost children in this war.

Her critics' attacks on her character won't work, because her personal life is
really not the issue.

Pat Alexander
Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., Aug. 21, 2005


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             440 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 28, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Vietnamization of Bush's Vacation

BYLINE: By Frank Rich

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1545 words


ANOTHER week in Iraq, another light at the end of the tunnel. On Monday
President Bush saluted the Iraqis for ''completing work on a democratic
constitution'' even as the process was breaking down yet again. But was anyone
even listening to his latest premature celebration?

We have long since lost count of all the historic turning points and
fast-evaporating victories hyped by this president. The toppling of Saddam's
statue, ''Mission Accomplished,'' the transfer of sovereignty and the purple
fingers all blur into a hallucinatory loop of delusion. One such red-letter day,
some may dimly recall, was the adoption of the previous, interim constitution in
March 2004, also proclaimed a ''historic milestone'' by Mr. Bush. Within a month
after that fabulous victory, the insurgency boiled over into the war we have
today, taking, among many others, the life of Casey Sheehan.

It's Casey Sheehan's mother, not those haggling in Baghdad's Green Zone, who
really changed the landscape in the war this month. Not because of her
bumper-sticker politics or the slick left-wing political operatives who have
turned her into a circus, but because the original, stubborn fact of her grief
brought back the dead the administration had tried for so long to lock out of
sight. With a shove from Pat Robertson, her 15 minutes are now up, but even Mr.
Robertson's antics revealed buyer's remorse about Iraq; his stated motivation
for taking out Hugo Chavez by assassination was to avoid ''another $200 billion
war'' to remove a dictator.

In the wake of Ms. Sheehan's protest, the facts on the ground in America have
changed almost everywhere. The president, for one, has been forced to make what
for him is the ultimate sacrifice: jettisoning chunks of vacation to defend the
war in any bunker he can find in Utah or Idaho. In the first speech of this
offensive, he even felt compelled to take the uncharacteristic step of citing
the number of American dead in public (though the number was already out of date
by at least five casualties by day's end). For the second, the White House
recruited its own mom, Tammy Pruett, for the president to showcase as an
antidote to Ms. Sheehan. But in a reversion to the president's hide-the-fallen
habit, the chosen mother was not one who had lost a child in Iraq.

It isn't just Mr. Bush who is in a tight corner now. Ms. Sheehan's protest was
the catalyst for a new national argument about the war that managed to expose
both the intellectual bankruptcy of its remaining supporters on the right and
the utter bankruptcy of the Democrats who had rubber-stamped this misadventure
in the first place.

When the war's die-hard cheerleaders attacked the Middle East policy of a mother
from Vacaville, Calif., instead of defending the president's policy in Iraq, it
was definitive proof that there is little cogent defense left to be made. When
the Democrats offered no alternative to either Mr. Bush's policy or Ms.
Sheehan's plea for an immediate withdrawal, it was proof that they have no
standing in the debate.

Instead, two conservative Republicans -- actually talking about Iraq instead of
Ms. Sheehan, unlike the rest of their breed -- stepped up to fill this enormous
vacuum: Chuck Hagel and Henry Kissinger. Both pointedly invoked Vietnam, the war
that forged their political careers. Their timing, like Ms. Sheehan's, was
impeccable. Last week Mr. Bush started saying that the best way to honor the
dead would be to ''finish the task they gave their lives for'' -- a dangerous
rationale that, as David Halberstam points out, was heard as early as 1963 in
Vietnam, when American casualties in that fiasco were still inching toward 100.

And what exactly is our task? Mr. Bush's current definition -- ''as the Iraqis
stand up, we will stand down'' -- could not be a better formula for quagmire.
Twenty-eight months after the fall of Saddam, only ''a small number'' of Iraqi
troops are capable of fighting without American assistance, according to the
Pentagon -- a figure that Joseph Biden puts at ''fewer than 3,000.'' At this
rate, our 138,000 troops will be replaced by self-sufficient locals in roughly
100 years.

For his part, Mr. Hagel backed up his assertion that we are bogged down in a new
Vietnam with an irrefutable litany of failure: ''more dead, more wounded, less
electricity in Iraq, less oil being pumped in Iraq, more insurgency attacks,
more insurgents coming across the border, more corruption in the government.''
Mr. Kissinger no doubt counts himself a firm supporter of Mr. Bush, but in The
Washington Post this month, he drew a damning lesson from Vietnam: ''Military
success is difficult to sustain unless buttressed by domestic support.'' Anyone
who can read a poll knows that support is gone and is not coming back. The
president's approval rating dropped to 36percent in one survey last week.

What's left is the option stated bluntly by Mr. Hagel: ''We should start
figuring out how we get out of there.''

He didn't say how we might do that. John McCain has talked about sending more
troops to rectify our disastrous failure to secure the country, but he'll have
to round them up himself door to door. As the retired Gen. Barry McCaffrey
reported to the Senate, the National Guard is ''in the stage of meltdown and in
24 months we'll be coming apart.'' At the Army, according to The Los Angeles
Times, officials are now predicting an even worse shortfall of recruits in 2006
than in 2005. The Leo Burnett advertising agency has been handed $350 million
for a recruitment campaign that avoids any mention of Iraq.

Among Washington's Democrats, the only one with a clue seems to be Russell
Feingold, the Wisconsin senator who this month proposed setting a ''target
date'' (as opposed to a deadline) for getting out. Mr. Feingold also made the
crucial observation that ''the president has presented us with a false choice'':
either ''stay the course'' or ''cut and run.'' That false choice, in which Mr.
Bush pretends that the only alternative to his reckless conduct of the war is
Ms. Sheehan's equally apocalyptic retreat, is used to snuff out any legitimate
debate. There are in fact plenty of other choices echoing about, from variations
on Mr. Feingold's timetable theme to buying off the Sunni insurgents.

But don't expect any of Mr. Feingold's peers to join him or Mr. Hagel in
fashioning an exit strategy that might work. If there's a moment that could
stand for the Democrats' irrelevance it came on July 14, the day Americans woke
up to learn of the suicide bomber in Baghdad who killed as many as 27 people,
nearly all of them children gathered around American troops. In Washington that
day, the presumptive presidential candidate Hillary Clinton held a press
conference vowing to protect American children from the fantasy violence of
video games.

The Democrats are hoping that if they do nothing, they might inherit the earth
as the Bush administration goes down the tubes. Whatever the dubious merits of
this Kerryesque course as a political strategy, as a moral strategy it's
unpatriotic. The earth may not be worth inheriting if Iraq continues to sabotage
America's ability to take on Iran and North Korea, let alone Al Qaeda.

As another politician from the Vietnam era, Gary Hart, observed last week, the
Democrats are too cowardly to admit they made a mistake three years ago, when
fear of midterm elections drove them to surrender to the administration's rushed
and manipulative Iraq-war sales pitch. So now they are compounding the original
error as the same hucksters frantically try to repackage the old damaged goods.


IN the new pitch there are no mushroom clouds. Instead we get McCarthyesque
rhetoric accusing critics of being soft on the war on terrorism, which the Iraq
adventure has itself undermined. Before anyone dare say Vietnam, the president,
Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld drag in the historian David McCullough and liken
2005 in Iraq to 1776 in America -- and, by implication, the original George W.
to ours. Before you know it, Ahmad Chalabi will be rehabilitated as Ben
Franklin.

The marketing campaign will crescendo in two weeks, on the anniversary of 9/11,
when a Defense Department ''Freedom Walk'' will trek from the site of the
Pentagon attack through Arlington National Cemetery to a country music concert
on the Mall. There the false linkage of Iraq to 9/11 will be hammered in once
more, this time with a beat: Clint Black will sing ''I Raq and Roll,'' a ditty
whose lyrics focus on Saddam, not the Islamic radicals who actually attacked
America. Lest any propaganda opportunity be missed, Arlington's gravestones are
being branded with the Pentagon's slogans for military campaigns, like Operation
Iraqi Freedom, The Associated Press reported last week -- a historic first. If
only the administration had thought of doing the same on the fallen's coffins,
it might have allowed photographs.

Even though their own poll numbers are in a race to the bottom with the
president's, don't expect the Democrats to make a peep. Republicans, their minds
increasingly focused on November 2006, may well blink first. In yet another echo
of Vietnam, it's millions of voters beyond the capital who will force the
timetable for our inexorable exit from Iraq.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             441 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sunni Opposition to Iraqi Draft Constitution Intensifies

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Qais Mizher and Khaled al-Ansary contributed
reporting from Baghdad for this article, and an Iraqi employee of The New York
Times from Najaf.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 907 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 29


More leaders of Iraq's Sunni Arab minority spoke out Monday against the nation's
draft constitution, and thousands of people took to the streets to denounce the
document in Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown.

Some Sunni leaders said they were already preparing a campaign to defeat the
constitution, which was presented to the National Assembly on Sunday over their
objections, when it goes before voters in a referendum in October. But some
added that they did not expect to succeed in that effort, and that they were
inclined to focus their energies instead on urging Sunnis to vote in the
December parliamentary elections.

''There is too much tension, too much bitterness, especially among the Sunnis,
and I think many people will push for a no vote'' in the referendum, said Sheik
Ghazi al-Yawar, a vice president and a Sunni leader from Mosul, who spoke to
reporters about the constitutional struggle for the first time in months.

But for all their anger, the Sunnis are less unified and organized than the
Kurds and Shiites who approved the constitution, Sheik Yawar said, and are
unlikely to defeat it. For the constitution to fail, two-thirds of the voters in
at least three provinces must vote against it, but Sheik Yawar said he believed
that Sunnis could muster a two-thirds vote only in Anbar, a volatile province
west of Baghdad.

For that reason, Sheik Yawar said, he thought the wisest course for the Sunnis,
who suffered politically after they largely boycotted the last round of
elections in January, would be to focus on getting a bigger turnout at the polls
in December.

''My heart says no,'' Sheik Yawar said of his feelings about how to vote in the
constitutional referendum. ''My mind says yes, because we have to move along.''

Some other Sunni leaders were still too angry to begin talking about the
December elections.

Saleh Mutlak, a member of the panel that drafted the constitution, said its
members had gathered Monday to discuss having the National Assembly declared
illegitimate, because the repeated extensions of the deadline for finishing the
constitution violated transitional law.

Other prominent Sunnis added their voices to calls for a defeat of the
constitution in October.

''We will educate the citizens -- Sunni, Shiite, Arab and Kurd -- to reject this
constitution when the process of voting starts,'' said Adnan Muhammad Salman
al-Dulaimi, the spokesman of the General Conference of Ahal al-Sunna, a Sunni
alliance.

Mr. Dulaimi cited the two issues that have ignited the most anger: a provision
that could lead to a division of Iraq into largely autonomous regions, and the
document's failure to assert that Iraq is part of the Arab world. But he said
defeating the document would be far from easy.

''We know it will be difficult for Iraqis to reach the voting centers in Sunni
areas,'' where guerrilla violence has been worst, he said.

In Anbar, where violence has been common, voter registration for the referendum
will be extended for an additional week, until Sept. 7, the election commission
announced Monday. The extension was made ''for logistical and security
reasons,'' the commission said.

Although Shiites and Kurds are likely to vote overwhelmingly for the
constitution, one wild card has been Moktada al-Sadr, a rebellious Shiite cleric
who has a large following and led two uprisings against American forces last
year.

Mr. Sadr has led demonstrations against the constitution's provision to create
autonomous regions in Iraq, and it is not clear whether he will mobilize his
followers in Baghdad's vast Shiite district, Sadr City, during the referendum.

Mr. Mutlak said Sunnis who oppose the document expected to meet with Mr. Sadr,
though no date has been set.

But some Sunni leaders said they were not sure they could rely on Mr. Sadr, a
notoriously mercurial figure who differs sharply with the Sunni panel members on
other issues. Mr. Sadr has always been hostile to the Baath Party of Mr.
Hussein, for instance, while many Sunnis angrily opposed provisions in the
constitution banning remnants of the party.

Mr. Sadr may also be subject to pressure from senior Shiite religious figures
who favor the constitution. On Monday evening, he met in Najaf for half an hour
with a son of Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, Iraq's most powerful cleric.

Some Sunni leaders acknowledge that defeating the constitution might be futile,
because the transitional law would require elections for a new parliament that
would be charged with writing another constitution. That constitution would, in
all likelihood, be similar to the one that was presented Sunday.

But for some Iraqis, the debate is as much about identity as politics. By
threatening to divide the country and publicly denying that it is a part of the
Arab world, some Sunnis say, the constitution is dissolving the thin cultural
glue that holds Iraq together.

''This is our crisis: Iraqi national identity is diminishing more and more,''
Sheik Yawar said. ''This constitution is not helping.''

As the political debate dragged on, violence continued.

A United States Army helicopter made a forced landing on Monday night under
hostile fire in northern Iraq, and one soldier was killed and another wounded,
The Associated Press reported, quoting an American military statement.

The incident occurred in Tal Afar, an insurgent-ridden city 260 miles northwest
of Baghdad. No further details were released.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators marched in Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown, to
protest the proposed constitution. (Photo by Bassim Daham/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             442 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 20, 2005 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

British Army Storms Basra Jail to Free 2 Soldiers From Arrest

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Robert F. Worth and Qais Mizher contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: CLASH IN IRAQ; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 19


Two British soldiers working under cover were arrested Monday in the southern
city of Basra and then freed as a British armored vehicle blasted through the
wall of their jail after an angry crowd began rioting outside, an Interior
Ministry official said.

The official said that the soldiers were undercover officers dressed as Iraqis
and that Iraqi police officers had arrested them after the men fired at a
traffic police officer.

A British military spokesman in Basra confirmed that ''two U.K. military
personnel'' had been detained early on Monday ''in a shooting incident'' and
that troops had used an armored fighting vehicle ''to gain entry'' to the police
station to release them. He said that more than one vehicle had been in the area
and that the police inside the station had refused to obey orders from the
Interior Ministry to release the men.

The incident came a day after British forces in Basra arrested three members of
the Mahdi Army, the militia loyal to the rebellious Shiite cleric Moktada
al-Sadr, on suspicion of terrorism.

The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to speak to the press, said the riot began Monday evening when
militia members converged on the police station holding the British men,
apparently hoping to seize them in order to free their three colleagues in
British custody. The British spokesman said there had been 100 to 200 people in
the crowd.

Ali Dabagh, a Shiite member of the National Assembly who had just emerged from a
briefing with Interior Minister Bayan Jabr in Baghdad on Monday night, said that
militia members had begun attacking the station with assault rifles and
rocket-propelled grenades, and that British troops soon responded to defend it.

The ministry official said that British armored vehicles had fired on the
station, headquarters of the major crimes unit in central Basra, and broken
through its outer wall. Troops then stormed in and freed the two men, he said.
There were reports of prisoners escaping, but the official denied them.

A broadcast on Al Arabiya satellite television showed two men, whom the station
identified as British undercover officers, one with his head bandaged and both
with their hands behind their backs.

The video showed men and boys hurling stones at a burning armored fighting
vehicle outside the police station. A British soldier could be seen climbing out
of the hatch and jumping to the ground, as the crowd pelted him.

[Despite the graphic images, British Defense Minister John Reid said Monday that
the soldiers wounded in the attack were ''being treated for minor injuries only
and are expected to return to duty shortly,'' Agence France-Presse reported.]

Reuters reported that two Iraqis had been killed in the fighting. The Interior
Ministry official said that 25 people had been wounded but that he could not
confirm any deaths.

Violence continued in other parts of the country. Car bombs exploded near Iraqi
police convoys in Mahmudiya and Latifiya, just south of Baghdad, just after 1:30
p.m., killing a total of nine police commandos and wounding 12, officials said.

In the northern city of Mosul, a man driving a sport utility vehicle blew
himself up with a bomb near an American convoy, killing at least one civilian.
The military did not report any deaths of soldiers in the attack.

In a statement on an Internet site on Monday, the terrorist group Al Qaeda in
Mesopotamia modified a declaration of war made last week by its leader, Abu
Musab al-Zarqawi. The statement said followers of Mr. Sadr, the Shiite cleric,
who has twice ordered his group to fight against American troops, would not be
directly attacked.

In an effort to persuade Iraqis that it is taking a hard line with insurgents,
the Iraqi government announced that the Central Criminal Court had handed down
sentences for 54 foreigners who had been convicted of crossing into Iraq
illegally. A majority were from Syria and Saudi Arabia.

In another court action on Monday, Saddam Hussein's nephew Ayman Sabawi was
sentenced to life in prison for supporting the insurgency. Mr. Sabawi was
arrested in May in Tikrit. His father, Sabawi Ibrahim alHassan, Mr. Hussein's
half brother, was arrested in February and is awaiting trial.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A British soldier struggled to escape from an armored fighting
vehicle that was set on fire by Iraqis after the shooting incident and two
arrests.
 An angry crowd threw rocks at British soldiers yesterday after a clash in Basra
that began when two soldiers fired at an Iraqi police officer. (Photographs by
Atef Hassan/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             443 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2005 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

4 War Protesters Called Zealots as Government Rests Its Case

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 666 words

DATELINE: BINGHAMTON, N.Y., Sept. 21


Four anti-war activists who spilled blood at a military recruiting center before
the American invasion of Iraq were portrayed by a federal prosecutor on
Wednesday as religious zealots who routinely destroy government property yet
have mostly evaded consequences.

But as the prosecutor rested his case after calling just four witnesses, the
four people on trial here began their own defense and tried to seize every
opportunity to convince the jury that their actions were justifiable, even
necessary, against the backdrop of war.

''In history, the people who did object won't all be looked at as murderers,''
said Teresa Grady, 40, when she testified in her own behalf, under questioning
by her sister, Clare Grady, 46, a co-defendant.

The four defendants -- who also include Peter J. De Mott, 58, and Daniel J.
Burns, 45 -- are facing federal charges that include damaging government
property and conspiracy to impede an officer, stemming from their protest at a
military recruiting office on March 17, 2003.

About 150 peace activists have been holding a daytime vigil at the federal
courthouse here since the trial began on Monday, with about 100 of them at a
time sitting as spectators in the courtroom. The activists say that they believe
the trial is part of a government attempt to stifle free speech and quell acts
of civil disobedience. Legal experts are also closely following the trial.

On Wednesday, Miroslav Lovric, the assistant United States attorney, finished
his case after three police officers and a military recruiter testified. The
recruiter, Staff Sgt. Rachon Montgomery, described two protests. During the
first, in December 2002, he said, activists, including those on trial, entered
his office in the Ithaca suburb of Lansing, lay down as if dead and refused to
leave. On March 17, 2003, the four members on trial returned to the office,
poured a few ounces of blood on the wall and again refused to leave. Other
protesters stayed outside and prayed.

Sergeant Montgomery testified that he was inconvenienced by the disruption and
was upset when he discovered he had gotten their blood on his hands. But he also
said he found the group to be friendly.

Later, a legal adviser to the defendants, William Quigley, argued that Sergeant
Montgomery's perception of the defendants as friendly undercut the charge of
conspiracy to impede an officer, because the law required the presence of
threats, intimidation or force. But Judge Thomas J. McAvoy refused to drop that
charge, saying he would leave it up to the jury to decide.

Mr. Quigley jumped in only occasionally, with the co-defendants handling the
questioning of one another. When Mr. De Mott testified, he was questioned by Mr.
Burns.

But Mr. Lovric cross-examined Mr. De Mott at length about his previous arrests,
which included ramming a car into a nuclear submarine in 1980 and hammering and
pouring blood on a different submarine in 1982 when he was part of an activist
group, Plowshares, which protested the nuclear arms buildup.

''You have decided unilaterally you can damage property,'' Mr. Lovric said,
asking if he had ever reimbursed the government. ''When are you going to stop?''

Later, Mr. De Mott was held in contempt of court when he refused to name the
person who took the blood from him that was used in the protest. The judge said
he would decide a penalty later.

The defendants, in their testimony and during their questioning of each other,
told the jury -- before the prosecutor or judge could stop them -- that they
were tried in a state court for their actions at the protest and that that jury
had become deadlocked.

Later, Teresa Grady, on the stand, said that a jury considering charges against
her father for destroying draft records in a Vietnam War protest found him and
27 others not guilty. She also said that as a child, her father talked at the
dinner table about ''jury nullification,'' the principle of refusing to convict
a person for whom one feels sympathy with a cause.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             444 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2005 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jury Deliberates Case of War Protesters

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: BINGHAMTON, N.Y., Sept. 23


A jury began deciding on Friday the fate of four Iraq war opponents whose
portrayal during their trial varied from admirable and important contributors to
history to arrogant and self-righteous extremists.

After a week of testimony and a trial that the prosecutor called in his closing
statement ''a circus show,'' the jury deliberated for six hours before going
home for the weekend.

Judge Thomas J. McAvoy said their deliberations would resume on Monday morning.

In closing arguments earlier in the day, their actions were described in much
different ways.

To the prosecutor, Miroslav Lovric, an assistant United States attorney, the
activists committed a simple crime. He charged that they conspired to shut down
the military recruiting office in a suburb of Ithaca on the eve of America's
invasion of Iraq by throwing vials of their own blood on the walls, pleading
with the recruiting officers to abandon their post and refusing to leave the
building. ''Extreme-thinking people cannot violate the law,'' Mr. Lovric said,
urging the jury to convict them of federal charges that include conspiracy to
impede an officer and damaging government property.

On the other hand, the defendants, Daniel J. Burns, 45; Clare T. Grady, 46; her
sister, Teresa B. Grady, 40; and Peter J. De Mott, 58; compared their actions to
those of Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr., Susan B. Anthony and Vietnam War
protesters. The defendants, who are representing themselves, are members of the
Catholic Worker movement, an activist group that encourages civil disobedience,
and said they felt compelled by their Roman Catholic faith and their belief that
the war in Iraq is illegal.

The protesters were first charged in a state court and after declining a plea
bargain that would have let them off with no jail time they pressed the case to
trial. The jury deadlocked, which is something that the defendants made sure the
jury in their federal trial knew about.

William Quigley, a law professor who is acting as a legal adviser, gave the
closing statement for Clare Grady. He urged the jurors to use common sense and
address certain questions. ''Why is the government still prosecuting this case
three years later?'' he asked. ''Why is government making a federal case out of
something that could be cleaned up with ammonia and a mop?''

During their deliberations, the jurors twice asked for clarifications. One
involved a typographical error in the instructions given to them by the judge.
The other suggested that they might be considering whether the throwing of blood
actually damaged the property or simply soiled it.

During the trial, Judge McAvoy allowed the defendants the kind of latitude not
usually seen in courtrooms. When one of the defendants questioned a fellow
defendant on the witness stand, they often read from a prepared script. Their
supporters filled the courtroom and frequently interrupted the trial with bursts
of applause.

The scene outside the trial was often equally dramatic. On Thursday, a man who
claimed to be sympathetic to the defendants threw a bottle of blood on the front
of the federal building, which houses the courthouse.

Demonstrators also held daylong vigils that included prayers, speeches and
music. Some veterans also joined the scene at times, standing near the
protesters and separated from them by a police barricade.

When the jury started deliberating, the veterans took down the police barrier
and spoke with the protesters. Many of them hugged.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter J. De Mott, Clare T. Grady, Teresa B. Grady and Daniel J.
Burns outside the Federal Building in Binghamton, N.Y. on Tuesday. (Photo by
Rebecca Towns/Press & Sun-Bulletin, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             445 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 25, 2005 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antiwar Rallies Staged in Washington and Other Cities

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY; Reporting for this article was contributed by Holli
Chmela and Lakiesha Carr in Washington, Carolyn Marshall in San Francisco and
Chris Dixon in Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


Vast numbers of protesters from around the country poured onto the lawns behind
the White House on Saturday to demonstrate their opposition to the war in Iraq,
pointedly directing their anger at President Bush and Vice President Dick
Cheney.

A sea of anti-administration signs and banners flashed back at a long succession
of speakers, who sharply rebuked the administration for continuing a war that
has cost the lives of nearly 2,000 Americans and many more Iraqis. Many of the
speakers also charged Mr. Bush with squandering resources that could have been
used to aid people affected by the two hurricanes that slammed into the Gulf
Coast.

As protesters moved from the rally to a march around the White House, they
packed city streets, and in some areas, came face to face with groups of
pro-administration demonstrators, who held up signs expressing support for the
war.

Organizers of the rally and march had a permit for 100,000 people, but the
National Park Service no longer provides official estimates for large gatherings
in Washington.

Rallies held on Saturday in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle and other cities
drew considerably smaller crowds, but unlike the more varied themes of recent
protests against administration policies, antiwar sentiment on Saturday was
consistent throughout. In Washington, it was evident from the start, as an
organizer screamed over the microphone, ''Let Bush and Cheney and the White
House hear our message: Bring the troops home now.''

Mr. Bush was in Colorado and Texas monitoring hurricane developments, and Mr.
Cheney was undergoing surgery at George Washington University hospital.

''It's significant that Bush is out of town,'' said William Dobbs, an organizer
of the march. ''It shows that he's turned his back on the peace movement, which
represents a majority of the American public right now.''

Dana Perino, a spokeswoman for the administration, said: ''The White House is
certainly aware of the protest. The president believes that one of the most
treasured rights of Americans is to peacefully express yourself, and there are
differences of opinion about the way forward. He understands that.''

Speakers at the rally included a newcomer to the modern antiwar movement, Cindy
Sheehan, the California mother whose son was killed last year fighting in Iraq.
Ms. Sheehan has become the face of the movement because of her efforts over the
summer, camping near Mr. Bush's ranch in Crawford, Tex. Her appearance and brief
remarks drew a thunderous response.

''I really haven't had a chance to digest all this,'' she said in an interview
after her speech, referring to the attention she has received. ''I hope I'm a
catalyst for change, but I don't want to be the focus of change.''

But the crowd also heard from old lions of the antiwar movement, like the Rev.
Jesse Jackson, the actress Jessica Lange, Ralph Nader and former Attorney
General Ramsey Clark, who has endorsed impeaching Mr. Bush.

Mr. Jackson reminded the crowd that the war proceeded without proof that Iraq
had unconventional weapons or a connection to Al Qaeda, saying, ''We deserve
another way and better leadership.''

The protests here and elsewhere were largely sponsored by two groups, the Answer
Coalition, which embodies a wide range of progressive political objectives, and
United for Peace and Justice, which has a more narrow, antiwar focus.

For months in planning, the theme was Iraq. But as Hurricane Katrina struck the
Gulf Coast, followed by Hurricane Rita, the rally quickly embraced domestic
themes as well. One sign held high said, ''Make levees, not war.''

''To me, there is an ideological connection,'' said Sheri Leafgren, a professor
of education at Kent State University in Ohio who held a sign that said, ''From
New Orleans to Iraq: Stop the war on the poor.'' ''If you care about people
losing lives and being devastated by grief, it's all human suffering.''

In San Francisco, as protesters marched toward downtown, David Miles, 49, pumped
up the volume on his iPod, attached to a 12-volt battery and large speakers on
wheels. ''War,'' the Vietnam-era protest song by Edwin Starr, suddenly filled
the air.

The lyrics, ''War, what is it good for?'' blared from the speakers, and
protesters joined in, shouting back: ''Absolutely nothing.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rally and a march against the war in Iraq yesterday drew vast
crowds to the National Mall in Washington and the area around the White House.
(Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company


                             446 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 24, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fear and Death Ensnare U.N.'s Soldiers in Haiti

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1778 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Jan. 21


Nearly 20 months after the United Nations arrived to stabilize the hemisphere's
poorest country and avert a civil war, there is still no cease-fire in this
violent city on the sea.

Blasts from tanks and machine guns go on for hours almost every day around Cite
Soleil, a steamy slum of concrete hovels and canals of raw sewage at the
capital's northern edge. No one knows for sure how many civilians have been
killed inside because the bodies of the slum-dwellers and local gangsters rarely
make it to morgues.

But last Tuesday, two Jordanian soldiers were shot to death in skirmishes with
local gangs, and another was seriously wounded. It was the third fatal strike
against United Nations personnel since December, a month when relations between
the international peacekeeping mission and local people worsened.

The violence has raised demands in capitals from Brasilia to Washington to
Ottawa for an explanation of what has gone wrong with Haiti's transition to
democracy. What is clear is that the $584 million a year mission has failed to
bring peace to Haiti, and the caretaker government has failed to bring
elections.

The interim government, appointed with the support of the United States after
the downfall of former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in March 2004, postponed
the first round of new elections to Feb. 7 from Jan. 8, the fourth delay in four
months. A second round is scheduled for March.

Uncertainty remains among the highest level organizers of the elections about
whether a fair vote is possible in the corrupt and deeply polarized political
atmosphere here.

The postponement has led to finger-pointing all around. The interim government
blames the international community for the delays, saying it failed to deliver
voter cards and train enough poll workers. The United Nations blames the interim
government, accusing its leaders of stalling in fear of losing power.

Cite Soleil is among the most desperate corners of a desperately poor country.
Fifty-five percent of Haiti's 8.5 million people live on less than a dollar a
day, according to United Nations estimates.

The continuing insecurity has not helped. Just after the United Nations mission
finally reached its full complement of 9,000 troops and police officers in
December, incidents of kidnappings increased to more than 14 a day, bringing
protests by this country's middle and working classes for the peacekeepers to
get serious about fighting street gangs, or get out of Haiti.

''They need to do better than what is going on to make a dent in the fear that
is affecting a million people in the Port-au-Prince area,'' said Andy Apaid, a
wealthy Haitian businessmen who runs textile factories outside Cite Soleil. ''We
don't want them to kill anyone. But we want them to do strategic operations to
get the criminals out.''

Indeed, everyone here seems to have a finger on the trigger.

The nervous Jordanian soldiers assigned to patrol the streets of Cite Soleil
rarely get out of their tanks to speak to the people they are assigned to
protect.

''Go away!'' the soldiers shouted one day last week in English at a woman who
only spoke Creole, and who was pleading for help to find her missing husband.
''We cannot tell you anything.''

Neighborhood gunmen, who call themselves militants, hide from the soldiers among
men and women too afraid to report crime.

''We are here to accompany the people in peace,'' said 24-year-old William
Baptiste, who calls himself Tiblan. ''The problem is the United Nations is
trying to annihilate us. Times are critical. We have to be ready, and willing to
die.''

Ambassador Juan Gabriel Valdes, the chief of the United Nations Stabilization
Mission in Haiti, known as Minustah, acknowledged the uphill battle in an
interview. ''This is a ghetto,'' he said of Cite Soleil, ''where gangs, which
are not different from the gangs found in Central America, have managed to
isolate the area from state control. And in a place where the state is as weak
as here, you cannot ask Minustah to perform the role of the state.''

But he and several other United Nations officials, as well as two high-ranking
Western diplomats, rejected assertions that the mission had failed. They charge
that Haiti's tiny elite, along with interim Prime Minister Gerard Latortue, have
orchestrated a campaign to undermine the mission and delay the elections,
because the Haitian leadership is nervous about what opinion polls indicate are
likely to be the results.

Prime Minister Latortue refused repeated requests for an interview, but he has
said that after Feb. 7, his government would not begin any new initiatives, only
fulfill necessary administrative duties until the new president is sworn in.
''If he could, my boss would leave tomorrow,'' said a spokesman for Mr.
Latortue, Jean-Junior Joseph. ''There is no joy in leading this country.''

A recent poll sponsored by the United States government indicated that the
leading candidate is former President Rene Preval, considered a protege of Mr.
Aristide. The Aristide government was undone by a protest movement, led by
people like the businessman Mr. Apaid, a revolt by former soldiers and police
officers and American pressure.

''They thought they could get rid of one government and have the country to
themselves and their friends,'' a United Nations officials said, asking not to
be identified out of fear that his comments could hurt his position in Haiti.
''But Preval has come and ruined the party.''

Maj. Gen. Eduardo Aldunate, deputy force commander for the United Nations
troops, agreed that kidnapping was a serious problem, but not one that justified
delaying elections.

He has taken charge of the mission since, in another setback, the commander of
the United Nations troops here, Gen. Urano Teixeira de Matta Bacellar, was found
dead in his hotel room just after New Year's from what officials have described
as a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

General Aldunate said that while violence continues to plague much of the
capital, there are few serious incidents in the rest of the country. He conceded
that Cite Soleil was under the control of street gangs loyal to Mr. Aristide. He
said the gangs use kidnapping as a way to make money and to attack the rich and
middle classes they feel are responsible for forcing Mr. Aristide into exile.

Critics say that the Jordanian forces are, culturally, a bad fit in the slum and
have been unable to mix with the local population as their Brazilian
counterparts have managed to do elsewhere.

When the Brazilians first said they would lead the mission here, it was seen as
an opportunity for Latin American nations to step up and fill a gap that the
United States, after supporting Mr. Aristide's departure, was reluctant to fill.

But the Brazilian effort here has been plagued by many of the same problems that
have faced peacekeepers in other conflicted corners of the globe, namely, a lack
of money and political backing, and questions over use of lethal force.

Not least among the reasons that it has been hard to attack the gangs in Cite
Soleil, said Mr. Valdes, the diplomatic chief of the mission, is that the area
is flush with weapons.

Mr. Valdes said the gang members have used money and intimidation to enlist a
broad network of support among residents here. Most kidnapping victims, he said,
are brought to the homes of average families in Cite Soleil and held there. If
the families cooperate with the gangs, Mr. Valdes said, they eat. If they don't,
they die.

Disarming anyone has been all but impossible. ''I have always said that this
mission is completely different from any other mission of the United Nations in
that sense because disarmament is not a collective problem,'' he said. ''We are
not facing armies, irregular armies or guerrilla groups. We are facing
individuals who are armed, and who do not want to lose their weapons, either to
defend themselves, or to attack others, or simply to eat.''

In response to mounting criticism against the United Nations work in Cite
Soleil, Mr. Valdes said, troops would increase patrols and implement stricter
controls at checkpoints. But he and ranking military leaders of the mission said
soldiers would not move to occupy Cite Soleil because of the risk of
''collateral damage,'' the killing of innocent men, women and children.

''What would happen with a massive operation?'' asked Maj. Gen. Eduardo
Aldunate, the deputy commander. ''Maybe we would catch some bandits, but for
sure many innocent people will die.

''Our role is not to kill innocent people,'' he added. ''It is to help them.''

Innocent people are dying all the time. Last August, the international aid group
Doctors Without Borders reopened Sainte Catherine Hospital in Cite Soleil. The
hospital had been closed for a year. Dr. Loris De Filippi, head of the medical
unit, said that the numbers of gunshot victims treated at the hospital had been
steadily declining but peaked again in December, as elections neared. Things
only got worse, he said, after the New Year.

In the first 10 days of this year, doctors treated more than 47 gunshot victims,
half of them women and children. One recent patient was hit by a bullet as she
slept in bed.

''It's appropriate,'' said Dr. De Filippi, ''to describe what's going on out
there as war.''

It certainly looked and sounded like war last Tuesday. Gunfire erupted just
before 8 a.m. when a Jordanian battalion started work on fortifying a guard post
at a main entrance to Cite Soleil.

''They don't care about how much they are firing or shooting rounds,'' Brig.
Gen. Mahmoud al-Husban said of the gunmen. ''In the beginning they used to fire
three or four shots in maybe one hour, but now they are firing hundreds and
sometimes a thousand.''

Indeed gunfire crackled through the air until well past noon, leaving two
soldiers dead. Capt. Tariq Abed Alfatta Aljaafreh, 30, was engaged to be married
at the end of his six-month assignment here. Sgt. Jalal Rabi Merei, also 30, was
a husband and father of two.

Their bodies were sent home Friday, after a ceremony of somber prayers and
defiant speeches. Not a single representative of Haiti's interim government was
there. Still, the speakers took the opportunity to send a message.

General Aldunate said the United Nations mission would not be forced to
surrender its work by the ''tiny elite that does not want to understand our
mission.''

Col. Mohammed Sabayleh, the dead soldiers' commanding officer, also spoke. ''We
remain committed to preserving peace against those who have lost the taste for
it,'' he said. ''These bodies you see before you are proof of our honesty, and
our determination.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jordanian United Nations peacekeepers praying Friday during a
military ceremony in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, for two comrades killed by gunfire.
(Photo by Eduardo Munoz/Reuters)(pg. A13)
 A crowd ran past the body of a man last Thursday on a narrow street in Cite
Soleil, a sprawling slum in Haiti's capital, Port-au-Prince. (Photo by Brennan
Linsley/Associated Press)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             447 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 27, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Militant Inmates Riot and Seize Control of Cellblock in Afghan Prison

BYLINE: By SULTAN M. MUNADI and CARLOTTA GALL; Sultan M. Munadi reported from
Pul-i-Charkhi for this article, and Carlotta Gall from Islamabad, Pakistan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 951 words

DATELINE: PUL-I-CHARKHI, Afghanistan, Feb. 26


Prisoners in Afghanistan's main high-security prison, among them people accused
of being members of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, rioted and seized control of one
cellblock on Saturday evening, battling with guards through the night, the
Afghan authorities said Sunday.

Up to 5 prisoners were killed and 31 wounded as police guards opened fire to
stop them from escaping when the violence began, a health worker at the prison
said, based on information from the prison doctor. Sporadic gunfire could be
heard outside the prison on Sunday.

The Afghan authorities moved in about 300 soldiers and seven tanks to surround
the prison, near Kabul, the capital. The prison houses about 2,000 inmates,
including 70 women. The prisoners include ordinary criminals and about 350
prisoners thought to be fighters for the country's ousted Taliban movement or
for Al Qaeda. There are also three Americans, two former soldiers, Jonathan K.
Idema and Brent Bennett, who were found guilty of running a private jail in
Afghanistan, and a free-lance cameraman, Edward Caraballo, who was convicted
with them.

Prison officials blamed Taliban and Al Qaeda prisoners for starting the riot,
which began with a protest by prisoners over being required to wear uniforms.
''They broke the locks of their cells and broke through a wall to the female
section and entered the women's cells,'' said Muhammad Qasem Hashemzai, the
deputy justice minister. The women, some of whom have children with them, did
not seem to have been harmed, he said.

Prisoners could be seen behind the barred windows of Cellblock 1 on Sunday. They
were hanging the light-blue new prison clothes out the windows on metal
bedsteads and setting fire to them. Bullet holes pocked the windows of the
cellblock from the shooting on Saturday night. The prisoners were shouting,
''Long live Islam, long live the prisoners, death to Bush, death to Karzai,'' a
reference to President Hamid Karzai.

The prison in Pul-i-Charkhi, a large pentagon-shaped prison built in the 1970's,
became notorious during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan when tens of
thousands of opponents were imprisoned and executed and buried in mass graves
nearby.

The prisoners at Pul-i-Charkhi are demanding to speak to Sebaghatullah
Mojadeddi, the chairman of the Peace and Reconciliation Commission, which
negotiates the release of Taliban prisoners from American military custody, said
Gen. Abdul Salaam Bakhshi, director of the prison.

They also demanded to speak with the head of the Supreme Court, Vice President
Ahmed Zia Masud, the leader of Parliament and observers from the United Nations
and its Human Rights Commission, he said.

''We are trying to negotiate,'' Mr. Hashemzai said. ''They are not very well
organized -- everyone is saying a different thing.'' He added: ''We want to
solve the problem with negotiation. Otherwise, if we attack them, many of them
will be killed.''

Afghan officials have sometimes struggled to maintain control of the prisoners
here. In December 2004, prisoners said to have been linked to Al Qaeda -- an
Iraqi and several Pakistanis -- overpowered their guards and tried to escape.
Four prisoners and four police officers were killed in the ensuing battle, and
the police barely prevented the group from breaking into the cell of the
American prisoners. Last month, seven prisoners accused of ties to the Taliban
escaped during visiting hours.

This time prisoners broke up their metal beds and used the bars to smash windows
and break out of their cells, General Bakhshi said. Then, police officers at the
scene said, the inmates escaped from the cellblock and charged at the main gate,
police officers said.

''We started shooting in the air first and they didn't care, then we had to
shoot toward them directly,'' said one police officer, who did not want to be
identified because he was involved in the shooting. ''It was very dark and we
didn't know if any of them were killed or wounded. We didn't know how many
rushed us, but we knew it was out of control.''

Hamidullah, 30, a health worker who was working in the prison late Saturday
night, said he had been in contact with the prisoners and had given first aid
kits and other supplies to one of the prisoners, a doctor.

''I didn't see any killed or wounded myself, but the prison doctor and some
others are treating the wounded,'' Hamidullah said. The dead and wounded remain
inside the cellblock, he said.

U.S. Defends Prison Practices

  KABUL, Afghanistan, Feb. 26 (AP) -- The American military on Sunday defended
its detention of about 500 inmates at its main base in Afghanistan, saying they
are treated humanely and provided the ''best possible living conditions.''

On Sunday, The New York Times reported that the inmates were held at the Bagram
air base, north of Kabul, some for as long as two or three years without access
to lawyers or the chance to hear the allegations against them.

Col. James R. Yonts, the American military spokesman in Kabul, would not confirm
or deny whether inmates were held for up to three years, saying the secretary of
defense sets the criteria for detention. But he added that all those held were
at one time ''enemy combatants'' and that their status was regularly reviewed.

''We hold them for two reasons: to question them and get intelligence from them,
or because they've committed violence against the coalition or the people of
Afghanistan,'' he said in an e-mailed response to questions.

''We regularly review the status of the detainees, and if a detainee has no
intelligence value and if we believe he will no longer attack the coalition or
forces of the central government, we will release him. We regularly release
detainees.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghan soldiers surrounded the Pul-i-Charkhi prison near Kabul
yesterday after some inmates took over part of the prison on Saturday night.
(Photo by Musadeq Sadeq/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             448 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 18, 2006 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sunni Leaders Say U.S.-Iran Talks Amount to Meddling

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE; Robert F. Worth contributed reporting from Halabja for
this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: POLITICS; Pg.
8

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, March 17


Sunni Arab political leaders on Friday denounced an agreement between the United
States and Iran to hold face-to-face talks about solutions to the unrest in
Iraq, saying the conversations would amount to meddling by foreign nations in
Iraq's domestic affairs.

The Iraqi Consensus Front, the country's main Sunni political bloc, issued a
statement calling the agreement ''an obvious unjustified interference'' and
asserted that it was not obligated to comply with any results of the
negotiations.

The Sunni leadership has long criticized Tehran's influence over Iraq's powerful
Shiite religious parties, and its opposition to the talks could add another
obstacle to the grinding efforts by Iraq's political leaders to forge a
coalition government.

''The Iraqis in the current government should have these talks with the Iranians
and discuss the level of intervention of Iran,'' Naseer al-Ani, a member of the
Sunni Arab bloc, said in a telephone interview. ''It's not up to the American
ambassador to talk to Iran about Iraq.''

The agreement between the United States and Iran was announced Thursday. Ali
Larijani, general secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, said
Iran's participation came at the request of Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, leader of the
Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a powerful Shiite party with
ties to Iran.

Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, said the Bush administration
would not meet with Iran to negotiate the future of Iraq but rather to voice its
concerns about what he called Iran's ''unhelpful role'' in Iraq. It remained
unclear on Friday whether Iraqi leaders would be invited to the meetings.

The Sunni criticism came as leaders of Iraq's major political blocs, as well as
the American ambassador, gathered in the heavily fortified compound of President
Jalal Talabani to discuss the formation of a new Iraqi government.

According to several participants, the discussions focused on the proposal to
create a national security council composed of leaders of the executive,
judicial and legislative branches, as well as representatives of the country's
main political blocs. The council would be consulted on pivotal national issues,
like the economy, oil policy, public services and security.

Some Sunni leaders wanted the council's decisions to have binding executive
authority. But, several participants said, the Shiite leadership and others were
insisting that the council have only advisory powers, thereby safeguarding the
constitutional powers of the executive.

A working group planned to continue the discussions on Saturday and was expected
to submit its conclusions to the blocs' political leaders by Sunday, officials
said.

In Halabja, Kurdistan, militias loyal to the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, the
party that governs the eastern part of the autonomous region, began a crackdown
after a riot on Thursday in which demonstrators destroyed a museum dedicated to
the thousands who perished in a poison gas attack by Saddam Hussein's security
forces in 1988.

The riot began as a rally against government corruption but became violent after
government guards fired weapons over the protesters' heads.

''The episode is a painful reminder that reforms are needed everywhere in this
part of the world,'' Barham Saleh, Iraq's planning minister and a Kurd, said in
an interview on Friday.

Although the riot may have arisen in part from the legitimate grievances of
frustrated people, he said, radical Islamists might have taken advantage of the
discord to foment violence. ''Obviously this has to be investigated
thoroughly,'' he said.

American and Iraqi security forces continued their search for insurgent
hide-outs near Samarra on Friday, the second day of an assault in the area,
north of Baghdad, though the results appeared to be modest and the American
command began to return some troops to their bases.

About 10 people were detained on Friday, bringing the number of suspected
insurgents captured during the raid to 47, said Lt. Col. Edward Loomis, a
spokesman for the 101st Airborne Division, which is leading the operation. At
least 17 have been released after questioning, he said, adding that troops
uncovered no new weapons stockpiles on Friday.

The operation has garnered widespread attention, in part because Samarra is
where a Shiite shrine was bombed by insurgents last month, setting off a wave of
sectarian violence. But the military has not suggested that this assault was a
direct response to the bombing.

The American military command described the push as the largest ''air assault''
since the invasion in 2003. The military defines air assault as the insertion of
troops by aircraft. Some television networks erroneously used the term
''airstrikes,'' conjuring images of the ''shock and awe'' bombing campaign that
heralded the invasion.

But there were no reported aerial bombardments during this operation, and
Colonel Loomis said Friday that the American and Iraqi forces had encountered no
armed resistance and suffered no casualties.

The American military reported that a soldier from the 101st Airborne was shot
and killed at an observation post in Samarra on Thursday, but the incident
appeared to be unrelated to the operation.

In Baghdad, the authorities recovered two more bodies, both handcuffed,
blindfolded and shot in the head, according to an official in the Interior
Ministry. At least 170 bodies, all showing evidence of execution-style killings,
have been recovered around Baghdad in the last 10 days, according to Iraqi
officials.

Though the motives for most of the killings remain unclear, officials fear that
the wave of executions is a continuation of the sectarian reprisals that
followed the destruction of the Samarra shrine last month.

Gunmen fired on Shiite pilgrims in several locations on Friday, killing at least
one and wounding 12, the ministry official said. An improvised bomb, apparently
directed at pilgrims, exploded on the road between Mahmudiya and Karbala,
killing one and wounding four, the official said.

Thousands of Shiites are converging on Karbala, in the south, to celebrate the
end of the 40-day mourning period commemorating the death of Imam Hussein, the
grandson of the Prophet Muhammad.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             449 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Extraditing Charles Taylor

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 340 words


Last week, Liberia's new president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, called for Nigeria to
extradite the former president and warlord Charles Taylor to face war crimes
charges. Mr. Taylor, who has been living in a Nigerian government guesthouse
since 2003, is wanted on a range of charges relating to his decade-long West
African rampage, which unleashed campaigns of torture, rape and dismemberment in
Ivory Coast and Sierra Leone and on his home turf, Liberia.

In a just world, Mr. Taylor would have already been tried, condemned and sent up
the river.

But the world has never been just, and this case is complicated. When Mr. Taylor
was under siege by rebel forces in 2003, the United States, Britain and Nigeria
arranged for him to get asylum in Nigeria, under the correct assumption that his
quick exile would reduce the bloodshed. Nigeria gave Mr. Taylor a safe harbor on
the condition that he stop sending his minions out to rape, pillage and plunder.

A report last year gave some weight to the argument that Mr. Taylor hadn't
stopped his bad ways. The Coalition for International Justice charges that Mr.
Taylor tried to destabilize Liberia, influence last year's elections and build a
regional army. Specifics are vague, but it is true that Mr. Taylor's ex-wife,
Jewel, was elected to the Liberian legislature in the same elections that swept
Ms. Johnson Sirleaf to power.

There's no law against Jewel Taylor's running for office. And it's tempting to
think that it may be better just to let this sleeping dog lie. After all, Mr.
Taylor still has many loyalists in Liberia with no qualms about taking to the
streets again.

But Ms. Johnson Sirleaf is taking a courageous, very risky step. It is incumbent
upon America and Europe, which say they support justice in West Africa, to make
sure that she and the new Liberian government get the necessary security aid,
including United Nations troops if necessary, to handle any pro-Taylor backlash.

For West Africans, who have endured more than a decade of war, there's no
justice without peace.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             450 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing  Americas: Ecuador: Government Clamps Down On Protests

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 96 words


President Alfredo Palacio declared a state of emergency late Tuesday, the ninth
day of protests by thousands of Indians against free trade talks with the United
States that have closed off highways and led to millions of dollars in lost
commerce. Troops deployed to rural highland communities outside of Quito, the
capital, cleared tree trunks and burning tires, while firing tear gas at
demonstrators. Protest leaders vowed to press on, while Mr. Palacio vowed to
continue the trade talks. A final round of negotiations with the Americans is
set for today.    JUAN FORERO (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             451 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 17, 2006 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Outrage at Funeral Protests Pushes Lawmakers to Act

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1320 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, April 11


As dozens of mourners streamed solemnly into church to bury Cpl. David A. Bass,
a fresh-faced 20-year-old marine who was killed in Iraq on April 2, a small
clutch of protesters stood across the street on Tuesday, celebrating his violent
death.

''Thank God for Dead Soldiers,'' read one of their placards. ''Thank God for
I.E.D.'s,'' read another, a reference to the bombs used to kill service members
in the war. To drive home their point -- that God is killing soldiers to punish
America for condoning homosexuality -- members of the Westboro Baptist Church of
Topeka, Kan., a tiny fundamentalist splinter group, kicked around an American
flag and shouted, if someone approached, that the dead soldiers were rotting in
hell.

Since last summer, a Westboro contingent, numbering 6 to 20 people, has been
showing up at the funerals of soldiers with their telltale placards, chants and
tattered American flags. The protests, viewed by many as cruel and unpatriotic,
have set off a wave of grass-roots outrage and a flurry of laws seeking to
restrict demonstrations at funerals and burials.

''Repugnant, outrageous, despicable, do not adequately describe what I feel they
do to these families,'' said Representative Steve Buyer, an Indiana Republican
who is a co-sponsor of a Congressional bill to regulate demonstrations at
federal cemeteries. ''They have a right to freedom of speech. But someone also
has a right to bury a loved one in peace.''

In the past few months, nine states, including Oklahoma, Wisconsin and Indiana,
have approved laws that restrict demonstrations at a funeral or burial. In
addition, 23 state legislatures are getting ready to vote on similar bills, and
Congress, which has received thousands of e-mail messages on the issue, expects
to take up legislation in May dealing with demonstrations at federal cemeteries.

''I haven't seen something like this,'' said David L. Hudson Jr., research
attorney for the First Amendment Center, referring to the number of state
legislatures reacting to the protests. ''It's just amazing. It's an emotional
issue and not something that is going to get a lot of political opposition.''

Most of the state bills and laws have been worded carefully to try to avoid
concerns over the First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of speech. The laws
typically seek to keep demonstrators at a funeral or cemetery 100 to 500 feet
from the entrance, depending on the state, and to limit the protests to one hour
before and one hour after the funeral.

A few states, including Wisconsin, also seek to bar people from displaying ''any
visual image that conveys fighting words'' within several hundred feet or during
the hours of the funeral. The laws or bills do not try to prevent protesters
from speaking out.

Constitutional experts say there is some precedent for these kinds of laws. One
case in particular, which sought to keep anti-abortion picketers away from a
private home, was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1988.

''A funeral home seems high on the list of places where people legitimately
could be or should be protected from unwanted messages,'' said Michael C. Dorf,
a constitutional law professor at Columbia University Law School.

The Westboro Baptist Church, led by the Rev. Fred Phelps, is not affiliated with
the mainstream Baptist church. It first gained publicity when it picketed the
funeral of Matthew Shepard, a gay man who was beaten to death in 1998 in
Wyoming.

Over the past decade, the church, which consists almost entirely of 75 of Mr.
Phelps's relatives, made its name by demonstrating outside businesses, disaster
zones and the funerals of gay people. Late last year, though, it changed tactics
and members began showing up at the funerals of troops killed in Iraq and
Afghanistan. The Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hate groups, has put
it on its watch list.

Embracing a literal translation of the Bible, the church members believe that
God strikes down the wicked, chief among them gay men and lesbians and people
who fail to strongly condemn homosexuality. God is killing soldiers, they say,
because of America's unwillingness to condemn gay people and their lifestyles.

Standing on the roadside outside Corporal Bass's funeral here under a strikingly
blue sky, the six protesters, who had flown from Topeka, shook their placards as
cars drove past or pulled into the funeral. The 80-year-old wife of Mr. Phelps,
slightly stooped but spry and wearing her running shoes, carried a sign that
read ''Tennessee Taliban.'' She is often given the task of driving the pickup
trucks that ferry church members, a stack of pillows propping her view over the
dashboard.

Next to her stood a cluster of Mr. Phelps's great-grandnephews and
great-grandnieces, smiling teenagers with sunglasses, digital cameras and
cellphones dangling from their pockets and wrists. They carried their own signs,
among them, ''You're Going to Hell.''

Careful not to trespass on private property, the group stood a distance down the
hill from the Woodmont Hills Church of Christ. Police cars parked nearby,
keeping watch, but mostly making sure no one attacked the protesters.

''God is punishing this nation with a grievous, smiting blow, killing our
children, sending them home dead, to help you connect the dots,'' said Shirley
Roper-Phelps, the spokeswoman for the group and one of Mr. Phelps's daughters.
''This is a nation that has forgotten God and leads a filthy manner of life.''

At the entrance of the church, Jonathan Anstey, 21, one of Corporal Bass's best
friends, frowned as he watched the protesters from a distance. Corporal Bass,
who joined the Marine Corps after high school, died with six other service
members when his 7-ton truck rolled over in a flash flood in Iraq. His family
was reeling from grief, Mr. Anstey said.

''It's hurtful and it's taking a lot of willpower not to go down there and stomp
their heads in,'' Mr. Anstey said. ''But I know that David is looking down and
seeing me, and he would not want to see that.''

Disturbed by the protests, a small group of motorcycle riders, some of them
Vietnam War veterans, banded together in October to form the Patriot Guard
Riders. They now have 22,000 members. Their aim is to form a human shield in
front of the protesters so that mourners cannot see them, and when necessary,
rev their engines to drown out the shouts of the Westboro group.

The Bass family, desiring a low-key funeral, asked the motorcycle group not to
attend.

''It's kind of like, we didn't do it right in the '70s,'' said Kurt Mayer, the
group's spokesman, referring to the treatment of Vietnam veterans. ''This is
something that America needs to do, step up and do the right thing.''

Hundreds of well-wishers have written e-mail messages to members of the
motorcycle group, thanking them for their presence at the funerals. State
legislatures, too, are reacting swiftly to the protests, and the Westboro group
has mostly steered clear of states that have already enacted laws. While
Corporal Bass's family was getting ready to bury him, the Tennessee House was
preparing to debate a bill making it illegal for protesters to stand within 500
feet of a funeral, burial or memorial service.

The House joined the Senate in approving it unanimously on Thursday, and the
bill now awaits the signature of the governor.

''When you have someone who has given the ultimate sacrifice for their country,
with a community and the family grieving, I just don't feel it's the appropriate
time to be protesting,'' said State Representative Curtis Johnson, a Republican
who was aco-sponsor of the bill.

Ms. Roper-Phelps said the group was now contemplating how best to challenge the
newly passed laws. ''This hypocritical nation runs around the world touting our
freedoms and is now prepared to dismantle the First Amendment,'' she said. ''A
piece of me wants to say that is exactly what you deserve.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of Westboro Baptist Church, above right, demonstrating
in February in Minnesota, near the funeral for a soldier who was killed in Iraq.
People opposed to the church's views carried flags nearby. At left, the Rev.
Fred Phelps, the church's leader, testifying in February at a State Senate
hearing in Kansas about a bill that would limit protesters. (Photo by Richard
Sennott/The Minneapolis Star Tribune, via Associated Press)
 (Photo by Orlin Wagner/Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             452 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iraqi Recruits Reportedly Balk At Postings Away From Home

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and KHALID W. HASSAN; Yerevan Adham contributed
reporting from northern Iraq for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 1


Hundreds of Iraqi soldiers recruited from volatile Anbar Province in the west
unleashed a rowdy and angry protest during their army graduation ceremony on
Sunday, an episode replayed frequently Monday on Arab satellite television.

After learning during the ceremony that they would be stationed away from their
hometowns, the soldiers reacted with fury, with dozens stripping off their new
uniform shirts. The new soldiers said they had been promised that they would
serve only in their hometowns.

''When we enlisted we were told the men from Falluja would go to Falluja, the
men from Husayba would go to Husayba, and the men from Qaim would go to Qaim,''
one new soldier said, in coverage of the event broadcast by Al Arabiya network.
All are cities in Anbar.

The soldiers are shown squatting or sitting on a parade ground and listening to
a speech by an Iraqi military commander. Then the commander says: ''There is no
such agreement, we are military,'' a reference to the soldiers' belief that they
would be required to serve only in their hometowns.

As Iraqi officers try to quiet muttering in the crowd, the Iraqi commander, who
is not identified, provokes the soldiers with a statement considered an insult
by many Arabs: ''If you like it, you are welcome. If you don't, the gate is
large enough for a camel to pass through.''

The soldiers rise in unison, with many angrily shaking their fists, shouting,
waving their arms or throwing parts of their uniforms to the ground. Then, some
protesters seem to wander into the background, while the television shows
soldiers closer to the cameras who continue to shout and gesture.

A spokesman for the American military, which is overseeing training of the Iraqi
Army, called the episode an isolated incident and said the Iraqi troops had soon
calmed down and marched off to eat at the chow hall. He said he did not know
whether soldiers were later disciplined.

The protest was ''a relatively short, brief display of dissatisfaction'' that
''flickered out as soon as it flared up,'' said the spokesman, Lt. Col. Michael
Negard.

''We have not seen this in the past,'' he said. The recruits were never promised
that they would serve in their hometowns, he added. ''They know they have an
obligation to go where the army sends them,'' he said.

The linchpin of American success in Iraq -- and eventual American withdrawal --
is the performance of the Iraqi security forces, and whether they can mature
into a skilled force loyal not to sectarian leaders but to a unified Iraqi
government.

A major area of concern has been the Sunni Arabs, who are needed to help pacify
insurgent strongholds in Anbar Province. The insurgency is dominated by Sunni
Arabs, many of whom used to serve in the army under Saddam Hussein.

American commanders are eager to deploy battalions of fresh Sunni Arab troops in
Anbar, and also to combat the notion that the new army is dominated by Kurds and
Shiites. Some Sunni troops insist on serving close to home, in part so patrols
near their families and hometowns are conducted by Sunni troops.

The ceremony, which took place at Camp Habbaniya, between Falluja and Ramadi,
followed a five-week training course. In all, 978 soldiers graduated during the
ceremony, according to a military press release that did not mention the
protest.

In northern Iraq, Iranian artillery shelled the mountainous eastern fringes of
Iraqi Kurdistan in the second day of attacks against land populated by Kurdish
rebels, forcing some families to flee, according to reports from Kurdish
officials.

On Sunday the Iraqi Ministry of Defense had accused Iran of lobbing mortars into
the area and sending Iranian troops across the border to attack fighters
affiliated with the separatist rebel group, the Kurdistan Worker's Party, or
PKK, which favors an independent Kurdistan.

On Monday an official Iranian news agency denied as ''unfounded and artificial''
assertions that any troops had entered Iraqi Kurdistan. But the statement did
not deny that shelling had taken place, and it warned that Iranian border guards
''are on maximum alert to confront any provocation by terrorist groups.''

The PKK rebels, who live along the border of Iraqi Kurdistan near both Iran and
Turkey, are bitter enemies of both countries, which have their own populations
of Kurds and seek to defeat any efforts toward an independent Kurdish nation.
The State Department classifies the PKK as a ''foreign terrorist organization,''
citing attacks in Turkey and other bloodshed, and says as many as 3,500 PKK
members live in northern Iraq.

The Web site of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, the political party that
controls the eastern portion of Iraqi Kurdistan, quoted a PKK official as saying
that dozen of families had to flee the shelling Sunday night and Monday morning,
and that there were some casualties. An American military spokesman in Baghdad
said Monday he could not confirm the reports.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             453 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2006 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

ANTI-U.S. RIOTING ERUPTS IN KABUL; AT LEAST 14 DEAD

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL; Ruhullah Khapalwak and Abdul Waheed Wafa contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, May 29


A deadly traffic accident caused by a United States military convoy quickly
touched off a full-blown antiAmerican riot on Monday that raged across much of
the Afghan capital, leaving at least 14 people dead and scores injured.

Witnesses said American soldiers fired on Afghans throwing stones at them after
the crash, though the United States military said only that warning shots had
been fired in the air.

But the crash tapped into a latent resentment of the American military presence
here, and violence radiated quickly through the city as rumors circulated that
the crash might have been deliberate. Gunfire rang out as Afghan police officers
and army soldiers tried to contain rioters who rampaged through the streets for
about six hours, burning and looting a dozen offices, cars and police posts. By
the end of the day at least 14 people were dead and more than 90 injured,
hospital officials said. It was the bloodiest day in the capital since the fall
of the Taliban in late 2001.

The Interior Ministry announced a nighttime curfew for the city for the first
time in four years, from 10 p.m. until 4 a.m., and President Hamid Karzai called
for calm on national television. ''This country has been destroyed for years by
rioters,'' he said, ''and they are using this traffic incident as an excuse.''

The speed and magnitude of the unrest was such that hundreds of police officers
and soldiers struggled to contain the violence. The Afghan government and the
American military authority issued statements promising full investigations of
the accident.

It became clear the American military and the Afghan police and army had used
their weapons to try to disperse the crowds. Scores of people were treated in
hospitals for gunshot wounds.

A 7-year-old boy was among the dead, and two more schoolchildren were badly
wounded, said Dr. Amin, the duty doctor at Khair Khana Hospital in the northern
part of Kabul, who like many Afghans uses only one name. Four people died at the
hospital, he said, and 60 wounded people were given first aid before being
transferred to other hospitals.

Although the sudden explosion of violence may have been a reaction to the five
deaths in the crash, it is a sign that Afghans are losing patience with the
government and the foreign military presence in Afghanistan, residents said.

Ali Seraj, a businessman and a descendant of the Afghan royal family, contended
that the American military showed a careless attitude toward human life that was
becoming a growing problem, whether it was the bombing of villages in
counterinsurgency activities in southern Afghanistan or car accidents in the
capital.

''This type of attitude has created a great deal of mistrust and hatred,'' he
said.

Just last week, President Karzai ordered an investigation of an American
airstrike on a village near Kandahar in the south that killed at least 35
civilians. In another episode, the United States military said last month that
it would investigate the killings of seven members of a family in an airstrike
in Kunar Province in the east during an operation against insurgents.

On Monday, clashes began early in the morning when a truck leading an American
military convoy smashed into 12 cars in rush-hour traffic as it went down a long
hill from the Khair Khana pass just north of Kabul. Five civilians were killed
and more injured in the multiple crash, a statement from Mr. Karzai's office
said.

The United States military said in a statement, ''A large cargo truck apparently
experienced a mechanical failure.'' The statement continued, ''This was a tragic
incident, and we deeply regret any deaths or injuries resulting from this
incident.''

An angry crowd gathered and began stoning the American convoy, and the Afghan
police when they arrived. ''There are indications that at least one coalition
military vehicle fired warning shots over the crowd,'' the United States
military statement said. ''We will determine the facts regarding the incident
and cooperate fully with Afghan authorities.''

Demonstrators and townspeople said the American troops had fired into the crowd
as people gathered and started throwing stones.

One demonstrator, called Ahmadullah, was still shouting, ''Death to Karzai!''
and ''Death to America!'' hours after the initial event.

Demonstrators and townspeople also asserted that the American truck driver had
deliberately rammed vehicles as he led the convoy from Bagram Air Base through
outlying villages and then into the city. ''The Americans came all the way from
Bagram to Kabul and killed about 20 people along the way,'' said Fraidoon, a
youth who was among the demonstrators.

He and other bystanders said up to a dozen demonstrators had been shot by guards
as they tried to break into a British security company's compound in a downtown
area.

Other protesters tried to reach the United States Embassy across town but were
prevented by armed blockades of Afghan police officers and soldiers. Others
attacked buildings in the commercial center of the city, and some marched on
Parliament in the city's southwest, attacking a television company and pizzeria
nearby.

By late afternoon the crowds had dispersed, leaving people to count the
casualties and put out fires. The offices of the aid organization CARE
International and the French nongovernmental organization known by the acronym
Acted, a pizzeria, a Chinese guesthouse and a post office were among the
buildings that were gutted by fire and ransacked.

Ground-floor windows of the newly opened Serena Hotel, Kabul's first five-star
hotel, were smashed, and traffic police officers sat outside burnt roadside
police posts. NATO troops evacuated diplomats and staff members from a European
Commission compound downtown.

Mr. Karzai blamed opportunists and rioters for the violence. ''Wherever you face
these elements, do not let them destroy our home once again,'' he said.

In a sign of the political implications the event has for the government, the
president promised to investigate the circumstances of the crash and to see that
the Americans involved were punished if found to be guilty. He added that he had
received a visit Monday afternoon from the United States ambassador, who had
expressed his ''deep regrets.''

The demonstrators -- overwhelmingly young men, even schoolchildren, carrying
sticks and stones -- were angry at the reports of deaths, but some also
expressed frustration with the government, the police and the generally poor
standard of living.

''Most of the demonstrators are people who have lost their jobs, and the
government cannot provide the people with the basic necessities,'' said Mukhtar
Ziayee, 33, a real estate salesman. ''The people are disappointed.''

But others were armed and intent on violence and robbery, residents said.
Mohammed Arif Safajoy, the owner of the pizzeria that was attacked, estimated
the rioters had done $50,000 damage there.

''This was just a demonstration in name,'' he said. ''They were looters, these
people who came to my restaurant.'' Among them were students from a nearby high
school, and they carried off electric fans, dishes and antique ornaments, he
said.

Hunger Strike at Guantanamo

  MIAMI, May 29 (Reuters) -- Seventy-five prisoners at the American naval base
at Guantanamo Bay were on a hunger strike on Monday, joining a few who had
refused food and been force-fed since August, a military official said.

Detainees are counted as hunger strikers if they miss nine consecutive meals,
and most of the 75 reached that mark on Sunday, said a spokesman for the
Guantanamo detention operation. Most are refusing food but continuing to drink
liquids, he said.

Hunger strikes have occurred periodically since the first suspected Taliban and
Qaeda fighters were taken to the base in 2002.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kabul rioters threw rocks at a military vehicle belonging to
the American-led military forces in Afghanistan. (Photo by Shah Marai/Agence
France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A1)
 A protester chanted slogans while marching down a Kabul street after Afghans
were killed in a traffic crash. (Photo by Danfung Dennis for The New York
Times)(pg. A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             454 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Americans Fired Into Crowd, Afghan Says

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and ABDUL WAHEED WAFA; Ruhullah Khapalwak contributed
reporting for this article.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, May 31


American soldiers involved in a vehicle crash here on Monday that set off
rioting then fired into the crowd of protesters and killed four people,
according to the chief of the highway police in Kabul, Gen. Amanullah Gozar, who
saw the accident.

Three people died in the crash caused by a runaway United States Army truck, and
four people died of gunfire from the last vehicle in the convoy as the American
forces extricated themselves from an increasingly hostile crowd, General Gozar
said in an interview on Wednesday.

He dismissed rumors that had spread through the city that the American soldiers
deliberately rammed vehicles, even including his own car. ''I can say clearly it
was an accident,'' he said.

The United States military initially said in a statement that the truck had a
mechanical failure and called the incident ''a tragic accident.'' It said there
were ''indications'' that ''warning shots over the crowd'' had been fired from
at least one military vehicle. General Gozar's account is the first declaration
from a senior Afghan official that American soldiers directed lethal fire on the
crowd.

An American military spokesman, Col. Tom Collins, said he had not heard that the
last vehicle had fired into the crowd or that four people had been killed by
Americans. ''Our soldiers believed fire was coming from the crowd, and they
fired their weapons in self-defense,'' he said.

He said soldiers in one vehicle had fired their weapons over the heads of the
crowd, adding that a thorough investigation was under way and that all the
soldiers would make statements to the investigators. ''We are examining all
information; it will all be part of the investigation,'' he said.

The deaths of civilians, in the initial car crash and in the protests that
followed, prompted the worst anti-American riots in Kabul since the fall of the
Taliban four years ago. Protesters fought the police and ransacked the offices
of foreign organizations across the city. Twelve people were killed, including
one policeman, and 138 were wounded as the police and Afghan Army soldiers
struggled to contain the violence, police officials said.

General Gozar, who is a powerful commander of the Northern Alliance, which
fought the Taliban, dismissed suggestions that politics, or factions opposed to
President Hamid Karzai, had driven the protests, and blamed the violence on
criminal elements who took advantage of the situation. He also criticized the
Kabul police for not being prepared to contain the violence and said the
president had asked him at midafternoon on Monday to move to the center of the
city with his highway police officers to help put down the riots.

Colonel Collins said the soldiers stayed at the crash scene for 45 minutes until
a relief vehicle arrived to tow the broken truck away, and reported that one
civilian man had been killed in the car crash and six had been injured, two of
them seriously. The soldiers provided first aid to the injured until ambulances
arrived to take them away, he said.

General Gozar, whose house overlooks the main road into Kabul from the north,
said he heard a truck horn on Monday morning and looked out his window to see
the driver of a heavy military truck waving frantically to people to get out of
the way. The truck hit a station wagon, then two military vehicles in the
convoy, and then was swallowed by a dust cloud at the foot of the hill, he said.

When he arrived at the crash scene a few minutes later, the American soldiers
had stopped their convoy and were treating the civilians injured in the other
cars, while others stood guard, he said. A crowd of shopkeepers and pushcart
operators gathered and began pelting the soldiers with stones. The police could
not contain the crowd, and finally the American soldiers escaped, he said.

''The first American vehicles were firing in the air, but the last one fired at
the people,'' he said. As the American soldiers escaped, leaving four people
dead, the crowd turned on the Afghan police, burning one of their cars and
stabbing a policeman, he said. The riot quickly spread. ''People were really
angry,'' he said.

General Gozar briefed President Karzai on the episode, and said he told the
president that while it was clearly an accident, the behavior of the Americans
had contributed to the people's anger. Arrogant driving -- driving fast or not
allowing cars to overtake their convoy -- irritated people, he said. People were
also angered when the soldiers prevented them from approaching the crashed cars
to help the injured, he said.

In more violence in southern Afghanistan, Taliban insurgents overran and burned
down the administration and police offices of a district in Oruzgan Province on
Tuesday night, in one of the most blatant challenges to the government and
foreign forces stationed in the province.

About 40 police and administration officials fled the district center to another
location under siege by Taliban militants, said Ruzi Khan, the former police
chief of the province. A Taliban spokesman, Qari Muhammad Yousuf, confirmed that
the attack had occurred.

In a separate insurgent attack, the deputy police chief of neighboring Zabul
Province was killed Wednesday in an ambush.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Men shoveled dirt from a United Nations guesthouse in Kabul
yesterday. It was burned in riots on Monday. (Photo by Ahmad Masood/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             455 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Video of Ill-Fated Uzbek Rising Offers Haunting, Complex View

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS and ETHAN WILENSKY-LANFORD; C. J. Chivers reported from
Moscow for this article, and Ethan Wilensky-Lanford from Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan,
and other locations in Central Asia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2949 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 16


The young man with an assault rifle, a convicted killer, stood beneath a statue
in the central square of the Uzbek city of Andijon. He had been freed from
prison in an armed raid the night before.

It was May 13, 2005. The man, Daniyor Akbarov, addressed a growing crowd of
unarmed civilians, telling them he was part of a group of 100 to 150 armed men
that had already lost 20 or 30 members in a night of fighting. He said that they
were trying to change Uzbekistan, one of the world's most repressive nations.

''For God!'' Mr. Akbarov said. ''For the future of your children! For your
rights!''

Later, an elderly, unarmed man stood in the same place, complaining that his son
had been prosecuted unfairly and beaten by the authorities. He described his own
humiliations at the hands of the Uzbek secret police. ''Give me justice!'' he
said.

These contrasting images -- an armed man after a night of sacking government
buildings, an unarmed man speaking passionately of repression -- appear in
nearly 70 minutes of video recorded inside the ill-fated antigovernment uprising
last spring in Andijon. The scenes were recorded hours before Uzbek troops
sprayed the demonstrators with automatic gunfire and, according to survivors,
killed hundreds of people who were trying to flee.

The recently available video, fragmentary and at times choppy, provides the most
extensive visual account to date of the controversial chain of events that
brought Uzbekistan international censure and deeply strained its relations with
the West, while driving it closer to Russia and China. The images have a
haunting quality; many of the people shown were soon to die.

Drawn from tapes made by at least two men in the crowd and later seized by the
Uzbek authorities, who then edited and partly subtitled it in Uzbek, Russian and
English, the video is far from impartial, having been used as evidence to
prosecute men charged in the uprising. Excerpts have also been shown on Uzbek
television, and used in a propaganda video circulated by Uzbekistan's embassies
in foreign capitals.

But the video is remarkable as a document that can be read different ways -- not
just as propaganda but in places as a portrait of confusion and disorganization
among the protesters and gunmen that undermines Uzbekistan's claim that it
resorted to violence to put down an armed uprising by highly trained
international terrorists. The gunmen often appear inexperienced, bungling and
poorly equipped.

Even allowing for the government's editing, other scenes contradict some
survivors' contentions that they were simply hoping to set off a nonviolent,
national uprising like those that had recently toppled other corrupt post-Soviet
governments. Serious crimes committed by the gunmen and poor judgment by the
demonstrators are evident, as are the tactical difficulties faced by Uzbek
security forces.

A copy of the videotape was provided to The New York Times by the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, a Washington-based research organization. A
researcher for the group, Martha Brill Olcott, had obtained it from Bakhtiyar
Babadjanov, a scholar of Islam at the Institute of Oriental Studies at the Uzbek
Academy of Sciences. Dr. Babadjanov provided a deposition for prosecutors.

The audio portion of the tape has since been more fully translated by The New
York Times and shown to survivors, and translated separately by the endowment,
which plans to post the video and its transcript on its Web site,
www.carnegieendowment.org, on Thursday.

Uzbekistan's Foreign Ministry and its embassy in Moscow declined several
requests to review the video and comment on it.

But three survivors of the crackdown, interviewed in hiding outside Uzbekistan,
say that even the edited tapes confirm what they and other survivors have long
told journalists, diplomats and aid organizations -- that a cadre of armed men
staged an uprising and took hostages, and were then joined by unarmed people who
saw a crack in Uzbekistan's oppressive security apparatus as a chance to
demonstrate peacefully for freedom.

This larger outpouring of support, one survivor said, persuaded the
demonstrators that if they could stand for a few days, more people might join
them. Instead, he said, they were shot without warning.

''You need to find the original tapes,'' one survivor said. ''It would be simply
horrendous.''

Uzbekistan has been strongly criticized by the State Department and the United
Nations for arbitrary detentions and the use of torture; the three survivors who
viewed the video, each separately, requested anonymity because of fears for
their safety and for that of their relatives who remain in Andijon.

An Uprising Foiled

  Other than a broad outline, much about the violence in Andijon, a city of
300,000 in the Fergana Valley, a swath of territory that extends from Uzbekistan
into Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan and has been a breeding ground of militant Islam,
remains in dispute.

What is generally agreed on is this: Last spring, many people in Andijon were
outraged over the detentions and trials of 23 businessmen accused of religious
extremism. Their supporters said the businessmen, who were owners of factories
and shops, were singled out because they resisted official shakedowns.

The businessmen were members of Akramiya, an Islamic organization based on the
teachings of Akram Yuldashev, a jailed math and physics teacher whose writings
and movement have been described by the group's adherents as a guide to
spirituality and self-improvement.

The accused men's families say the group is a charitable and religious
organization, but Uzbekistan has labeled it criminal and extremist. Weeks of
peaceful protests against the trials turned violent on the night of May 12, when
a group of armed men attacked a police garrison.

The gunmen's relationship to Akramiya, if any, is not clear; their number and
allegiances are not known. Survivors of the uprising say they were simply angry
local men, but the Uzbek government says they were terrorists trained abroad
with money from the United States, an allegation the United States has dismissed
as absurd.

But the survivors and the government agree that the armed men killed police
officers and seized weapons, then moved to a prison, where they killed guards
and released the 23 businessmen and hundreds of other prisoners.

Joined by some of the prisoners, the armed men attacked another security
building but were repelled by Uzbek security officers. By sunrise they had
overrun the regional administration headquarters on Babur Square.

There, as two large theaters were set on fire (it is not clear by whom; each
side blames the other), the standoff was joined by hundreds, then thousands, of
unarmed demonstrators. From early in the morning, the demonstration included a
dense crowd of women standing shoulder to shoulder, some with children; the
survivors say these were families of the businessmen, who had been actively
protesting for months.

The origins of the crowd remain a source of argument. The Uzbek government
insists people were rounded up by armed men and not allowed to leave. More than
30 participants interviewed by The New York Times in the days and weeks after
the massacre, including many of the women, have uniformly said this
characterization is a lie, and that they voluntarily supported the protest or,
in a few cases, appeared out of curiosity.

At this point the video becomes useful, if not conclusive, as it begins with the
crowd assembling in the square. In the video, people in the crowd largely appear
committed or quizzical, not coerced.

Darker scenes soon appear, as government officials and employees, including
firefighters, are taken hostage by the armed men. In at least two instances, an
armed man addresses the crowd. Later, hostages are forced into the seized
government building.

These scenes -- a gunman giving a speech, firefighters being taken hostage as
buildings burn -- undermine protesters' claims of nonviolent intent and make it
difficult to imagine that they realistically expected a personal visit from a
senior official, especially from the Uzbek president, Islam A. Karimov, as
survivors said they had hoped.

But then the nature of the demonstration shifts, the video shows, from an armed
uprising to a largely civil protest by mostly unarmed people, with some gunmen
still in the mix, creating complicated tactical problems for the Uzbek
government.

The images remain open to a range of interpretations.

Dr. Olcott of the Carnegie Endowment said that upon viewing the tape, she
believed that many of the unarmed demonstrators were being used by the gunmen.
Once it became clear that negotiations were failing, she said, they should have
urged people, especially the women and children, to leave the square for their
own safety.

''I looked at the tape and was horrified, and that is not a defense of what
Uzbekistan did,'' she said. ''I thought neither side looked very attractive.
When I watched these movies, I was sorry for everybody.''

But the video also shows no sign that Uzbekistan tried nonlethal methods or a
gradual escalation of force to break up the crowd, like giving clear warnings or
signals to disperse, using water cannons or tear gas, or having snipers
eliminate the gunmen.

By evening, after hours of failed negotiations and Uzbek troop buildups, the
government dispersed the crowds with sustained automatic fire. Fleeing people,
some leading hostages along as human shields, encountered troops massed away
from the square who gunned down lines of protesters, the survivors said.

Human rights organizations have labeled the ending a massacre, and said there
was evidence of executions of the wounded with gunshots to their heads.

''The attackers who took over government buildings, took people hostage and used
people as human shields, committed serious crimes, punishable under the Uzbek
criminal code,'' Human Rights Watch wrote. ''But neither these crimes nor the
peaceful protest that ensued can justify the government's response.''

The Demonstrators' Intentions

  For all its utility, the video has limits. It covers a fraction of the time
that demonstrators held the square and shows nothing of the final, bloody hours.
Survivors say some of the audio may have been altered by the Uzbek government to
give the demonstration a more militant tone. For instance, the translations
consistently emphasize calls of ''Allah-u akbar,'' or ''God is great'' in
Arabic, but ignore audible shouts of ''ozodlik,'' the Uzbek word for freedom.

And what is shown seems unlikely in itself to answer the many lingering
questions about the moments before the final outburst of violence.

This limitation is partly a result of the fact that different sequences can be
read either as signs of the armed men's organization and preparation, or as
signs of their disorganization and lack of training.

But some elements are beyond dispute. At least 40 armed men appear in the video,
most with Kalashnikov assault rifles, one with a Dragunov sniper rifle and six
with semiautomatic pistols. The remarks of Mr. Akbarov, the convicted killer,
suggested that there were 30 to 90 more.

And yet even with the larger number, the gunmen would make up a small fraction
of the crowd, as the survivors have long said.

Other contradictory sights abound. One elderly man, seen early on, carries his
assault rifle with wooden uncertainty, as if he has never before handled a gun.
But later, as a group of men force a hostage into the administration building, a
young man is seen confidently pressing a pistol into the base of the hostage's
neck.

Moreover, while there is disagreement over who set the theaters on fire, one of
the demonstrators is seen carrying a fuel can and others are shown making
Molotov cocktails.

The speeches are also confusing, inconsistent and in some cases incoherent,
making it unclear what exactly the demonstrators thought they might achieve.

At one point, Mr. Akbarov says he is willing to die, and at times people in the
crowd yell ''Allah-u akbar,'' which Uzbekistan maintains is evidence that the
armed men were Islamic terrorists. The survivors say the phrase, commonly used
by Muslims, implies no such thing.

In some cases, the words and actions shown make it difficult to characterize the
rally narrowly. For example, the owner of a furniture factory, Tavakkalbek
Khojiyev, is seen at one point without a weapon, trying to calm the crowd and
urging it to remain peaceful.

Earlier in the morning, however, Mr. Khojiyev had appeared in the video with an
assault rifle slung over his shoulder, raising questions about what type of
revolutionary he was trying to be.

For all of the insights the video provides, the survivors say it is also
noteworthy for what it omits. For example, a radio report compiled by Galima
Bukharbayeva, a journalist for the Institute for War and Peace Reporting who was
in Andijon the afternoon of the protest and during the crackdown, includes audio
of demonstrators complaining bitterly about the social and economic conditions
in Uzbekistan. The official Uzbek video largely leaves out these speeches.

Ms. Bukharbayeva later attended the Columbia University Graduate School of
Journalism, which has posted her latest report on its Web site. The report
includes audio made as Uzbek security forces fired on the crowd, including the
sounds that surrounded Sharif Shakirov, a local man who was speaking on his
cellphone while under fire.

The shooting recorded is intensive and much of it is automatic, which undercuts
the Uzbek government's contention that its troops used only precise fire. As
people pray around him, their prayers growing fainter, Mr. Shakirov is struck
and dies. The line remains open, capturing sounds of more shots.

The Aftermath

  The Uzbek government, in statements from President Karimov and prosecutors,
has said the uprising was carried out by Islamic terrorists financed by the
United States and trained by Chechens in neighboring Kyrgyzstan.

These American-backed Islamic terrorists, in the official version, attacked
after giving advance notice to Western foreign correspondents, who were to be in
position ahead of time to provide biased accounts.

The West has rejected much of Uzbekistan's portrayal, and the crackdown and
Uzbekistan's refusal to allow a credible international investigation of the
events have fundamentally changed its foreign relations, isolating it from the
West.

The European Union has imposed visa restrictions on Uzbek security officials and
limited sales of arms and police equipment to the country. Uzbekistan, chafing
under Western criticism, has evicted the United States from a former Soviet air
base that the Pentagon had been using since 2001 to support operations in
Afghanistan.

Hundreds of Andijon residents became refugees, fleeing to Kyrgyzstan.

Of these, 450 had been airlifted to Europe by last September, en route to
resettlement in countries including Canada, Australia, Switzerland, the Czech
Republic, Finland, the Netherlands, Germany and the United States, which has
agreed to accept more than half of them, according to the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.

Five refugees remain in jail in Kyrgyzstan. Four others, including Mr. Khojiyev,
the furniture factory owner, were forcibly removed by Kyrgyz security officers
from a refugee camp within weeks of entering Kyrgyzstan and returned to the
Uzbek security services. Mr. Khojiyev stood trial last September in a proceeding
that, according to independent observers, had the feel of a Soviet show trial.

Viewed through the limited video now available, the armed uprising and the
subsequent demonstration mixed scenes of hope and bravado, and what now seems
foolishness and naivete.

''We have taken care of everything you are worrying about,'' Mr. Khojiyev, now
convicted and in prison, tells the crowd. He adds, ''We should be faithful here,
and the victory will be ours.''

One survivor, watching the video, said that although he believed the
demonstrators were on the right side, he was saddened by the confused spectacle
in the square. The speakers, and their calls to the crowd, are a disjointed lot.
He knows how this ends.

''There was not a leader for the crowd,'' he said. ''If there had been a leader,
all Uzbekistan would have been behind him.''

A Protest Suppressed With a Massacre

  On May 13, 2005, the Uzbek government suppressed an uprising in the eastern
city of Andijon with a bloody assault that left hundreds dead, shattered
relations with the United States and sent tremors throughout Central Asia.

After the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the United States cultivated
closer relations with Uzbekistan and its autocratic president, Islam A. Karimov,
establishing an air base on Uzbek soil and projecting its influence deep inside
former Soviet territory. The expanded relationship was both praised as
realpolitik strategy and criticized as a shortsighted gesture of support for a
dictator with a chilling human rights record.

The partnership soured after the crackdown, during which Uzbek troops opened
fire on a mixed crowd of gunmen, escaped prisoners and thousands of unarmed
civilians. The United States openly criticized Mr. Karimov, who responded by
evicting the Americans from the air base, establishing closer relations with
Moscow and encouraging other countries in the region to do the same.

Newly available videotape of the uprising, the most extensive visual accounting
of the events yet, provides fresh insight into the events of that day, casting
new light on the activities of the authorities and the crowd, many of whose
members were soon to die.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A funeral for one of the hundreds of people killed when Uzbek
troops fired on protesters in Andijon on May 13, 2005. (Photo by Denis
Sinyakov/Agence France-Presse)
The Uzbek government has used scenes like this one, in which some of the
protesters take a hostage at gunpoint, to support its argument that the
demonstrators were armed and dangerous. (Photo by Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace)(pg. A10)
 (Photo by Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                             456 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 9, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citing Israel's Need for Security, Bush Accepts Occupation

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 8


President Bush said today that Israel was justified in occupying the West Bank
until "security improves," a comment that appeared supportive of Israeli
officials, who had said recently that they had no intention of withdrawing their
forces from Palestinian-controlled territories soon.

In answer to a question at his news conference at the White House this
afternoon, Mr. Bush pointedly passed up an opportunity to offer a warning
similar to the one he gave in April, when he angrily said that Prime Minister
Ariel Sharon should "heed my call" and withdraw Israeli troops. Instead, with
the Israeli Army fully in command of most of the Palestinian areas of the West
Bank, he said, "I would hope that everybody got the message that we all have
responsibilities to fight off terrorist attacks."

Israeli military and government officials have talked of keeping their troops in
the Palestinian areas for months to prevent suicide bombings, which have abated
in recent days.

On June 19, Mr. Sharon declared that Israel would seize and hold those
territories. A few days later, Mr. Bush called for the removal of Yasir Arafat
as the leader of the Palestinian Authority. Mr. Bush's comments today will
almost certainly be cited as evidence by the Israelis that they have tacit
American approval of their military action.

Mr. Bush also used today's news conference, held hours after he returned from a
three-day vacation in Maine, to repeat his determination to oust Saddam Hussein
as the leader of Iraq. He said that he was deeply involved in military, economic
and diplomatic strategy to bring about what he called "regime change."

Mr. Bush tried to diminish -- but did not deny -- an article in The New York
Times on Friday that described the Pentagon's broad concept for a three-pronged
invasion of Iraq. He said the source of the story was "somebody down there at
level five flexing some know-how muscle," but disputed none of the account,
which described a document that planners at the United States Central Command
had prepared.

Mr. Bush also suggested that in the broader effort to prevent terrorism, he had
slightly altered his approach toward the capture of Osama bin Laden, having said
soon after the Sept. 11 attacks that it was his goal to take Mr. bin Laden "dead
or alive."

"He may be alive," Mr. Bush said. "If he is, we'll get him. If he's not alive,"
he said, pausing, "we got him."

American intelligence officials say they believe that Mr. bin Laden, the leader
of Al Qaeda, is living along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. But
there have been no known sightings of him for months.

Some intelligence officials speculate that, if he is alive, Mr. bin Laden is
communicating with his fractured network through runners who briefly use -- and
then dispose of -- cellphones. But there is an argument within the intelligence
community over whether Mr. bin Laden's silence can be interpreted as evidence of
his demise, or whether, in the words of one senior official, "he's just gone
deep underground."

Mr. Bush's comments on the Middle East were telling because he has not followed
up on his June 24 speech with more public calls for the Israelis and
Palestinians to act. That silence has only fueled speculation that American
policy in the region is essentially frozen while Yasir Arafat remains in place.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is expected to meet next Monday in New York
City with senior officials from the United Nations, the European Union and
Russia to discuss proposals for ending the violence in the Middle East, Richard
A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said today.

The meeting will follow up on talks that were held last week between William J.
Burns, the assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs, and officials
from the United Nations, the European Union and Russia. Mr. Boucher called those
talks "good and productive."

Mr. Bush insisted today that elements of his strategy were falling into place,
starting with his call for the Palestinians to develop institutions -- from
courts to a reliable finance system -- that would create confidence in their
self-governance.

"I believe some progress is being made toward the institutions that I talked
about, that are necessary for a Palestinian state to emerge, which will give us
all confidence in its ability to fight off terrorist activities, its ability to
receive international aid without stealing the money, its ability to develop a
judiciary," Mr. Bush said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             457 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 25, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Cautions Against Letup in Terrorism Battle

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 549 words

DATELINE: LAS CRUCES, N.M., Aug. 24


President Bush finished three days of campaigning for Republican candidates in
the West today by warning against complacency in the fight against terrorism --
and offering sharper criticism of Senate Democrats -- but he continued to be
dogged by protests over his threats to wage war against Iraq.

Mr. Bush began the day with a breakfast fund-raiser for Bill Simon Jr., the
struggling candidate for governor in California whose family investment firm
faces a $78 million civil court judgment for defrauding a partner.

In two days of events, Mr. Bush helped raise $2.6 million for Mr. Simon's race
-- less than had been hoped. Mr. Bush offered support for Mr. Simon only during
fund-raisers and not during public events.

Later, in New Mexico, which Mr. Bush lost in 2000 by 366 votes, he helped raise
$300,000 for Steve Pearce, who is battling to win an open House seat held by a
retiring Republican, and $200,000 for John Sanchez, who is running for governor
against Bill Richardson, the former energy secretary and New Mexico congressman.

Throughout the day, Mr. Bush cautioned against easing up in the fight against
terrorism, aiming criticism at Senate Democrats whom he accused of selfishly
impeding efforts to create an effective domestic security department.

"There are senators who are more worried about the special interests in
Washington than they are about protecting the people," Mr. Bush told a crowd of
supporters at New Mexico State University this afternoon. "They're more
interested in their turf than they are in homeland security. And they need to
give me a good bill."

Senate Democrats, led by the majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota,
support creation of a new domestic security department, but some contend that
the specifics of the Bush plan would strip federal workers of important employee
protections.

Mr. Bush began the day in Los Angeles at a fund-raiser for Mr. Simon -- whom Mr.
Bush did not mention during his two public appearances in the state -- praising
him as a "good man."

Mr. Simon, who was once thought to have a reasonable chance of beating the
Democratic incumbent, Gray Davis, but now is considered a long shot, criticized
reports that Mr. Bush was keeping his distance.

"If keeping me at arm's length really means flying several thousand miles out
here to campaign with us for two days, and now you've done five events with us,
could you please keep me at arm's length for the balance of the campaign?" Mr.
Simon said.

Before the Simon fund-raiser, Mr. Bush passed several hundred protesters with
signs that said things like "No War for Oil," "George W. Hitler" and, in an
apparent reference to Mr. Bush's daughters, "Send the Twins to Iraq."

Another protester held a sign that said "Bush You Stink of Corporate
Corruption."

Later, at an appearance before a cheering crowd at New Mexico State University,
a lone protester in a top row shouted comments. He was swiftly escorted out by
security officials, and he was punched on the shoulder by one Bush supporter in
the crowd.

Mr. Bush was expected to return tonight to his ranch in Crawford, Tex., where he
will meet on Tuesday with the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the United States,
Prince Bandar bin Sultan, before leaving to raise money on Thursday for
Republican candidates in Arkansas and Oklahoma.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a rally yesterday at New Mexico State
University in Las Cruces at the end of a three-day campaign trip in the West.
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             458 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 27, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

40 Years After Infamy, Ole Miss Looks to Reflect and Heal

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

DATELINE: OXFORD, Miss., Sept. 23


Ole Miss is looking for witnesses to the night of Sept. 30, 1962.

It was the night James H. Meredith integrated the University of Mississippi,
backed by 300 federal marshals and 30,000 troops, as thousands of white students
and outsiders ran riot over the campus. Two men were left dead and at least 300
wounded, yet not one student was expelled, not one attacker convicted.

Now, as it faces up to its infamy more candidly than ever, the university is
embarking on a project that is more self-examination than investigation.
Scholars are beginning a yearlong documentary project, videotaping anyone they
can find who was in Oxford that night 40 years ago: Mr. Meredith, his lawyer and
the federal officials charged with enforcing the orders they won in court; the
marshals, National Guardsmen and regular Army soldiers -- black and white -- who
were credited with averting a massacre; the town doctor who stitched up gashes
and bullet wounds while under fire himself; the college chaplain who climbed the
Confederate soldiers' monument and begged the mob to go home.

At the same time, university officials want America to appreciate that this is a
very different campus now. Last spring, after quietly earning his doctorate in
business administration like any other student, Mr. Meredith's son Joseph
graduated at the top of his class. Today, black students make up nearly 13
percent of the enrollment and have held every major leadership position on
campus, while far from Oxford, university emissaries are going into poor
communities across the state to help fix schools, build sewers and bridge racial
divides.

The school's chancellor, Robert C. Khayat, argues that Ole Miss, in effect, has
earned emancipation from its historical burden. "Forty years ago, the nation
wanted us to treat everyone the same way," said Mr. Khayat, who has struggled
since 1995 to make the university more hospitable to minorities. "Now we just
want to be treated the same way everyone else is treated."

What has not changed since 1962, though it recedes with time and effort, remains
in the picture. The Confederate battle flag is harder to spot at Ole Miss
football games, but its image is still there, on the handkerchief that a young
man waves after the Rebels score a touchdown, on the cover of a cellphone
clipped to a middle-aged alumnus's belt. The marching band still plays "Dixie."
And there are still those who cling to the memory of what used to be.

Anson Sheldon, for one, will not be making the two-hour drive to Oxford next
week from his home in Avon, Miss., near Greenville. "I won't be celebrating
anything," he said.

Mr. Sheldon, 59, a real estate broker, was a junior at Ole Miss in the fall of
'62. He was a segregationist then and is unashamed of it now. He easily recalls
how he howled at the marshals that night to make his feelings known, how he
erupted -- don't push him on the details -- along with thousands of other angry
whites after, he says, the marshals opened fire with tear gas and birdshot.

"That got my blood flowing pretty good, and I just answered the call," Mr.
Sheldon said, recalling the sting of the pellets that hit him. "I didn't have a
weapon, and I don't think I caused any serious injuries. But there could've been
somebody standing too close to my fist when I flexed my arm."

Many others will be celebrating, officials say, for there are many people to
honor, and time is running short. The generation of civil rights activists is
now about the same age as Civil War veterans were when monuments to the
Confederacy started popping up across the South at the turn of the 20th century.
Indeed, a long-planned civil rights memorial at Ole Miss will be dedicated here
next week, just behind the Lyceum, the symbolic heart of the campus where
rioting broke out.

Ole Miss has observed the anniversary every year, but never like this, Mr.
Khayat said. "It's an opportunity to bring together the participants in that
event, probably for the last time," he said, "but also to let them know that
what they did was not in vain."

Some university officials said they were surprised to find that many current
students were only dimly aware of the rioting at Ole Miss or the constitutional
crisis that precipitated it, when Gov. Ross Barnett repeatedly defied federal
court orders to admit Mr. Meredith, an Air Force veteran and a Mississippi
native, and physically blocked him from registering. The military suppression of
the riots that Governor Barnett had helped to incite crushed the prevailing
Southern strategy of "massive resistance" to integration, wrote William Doyle,
author of "An American Insurrection: The Battle of Oxford, Mississippi, 1962"
(Doubleday, 2001).

In Mr. Doyle's view, it was as critical a moment as the collapse of Pickett's
Charge at Gettysburg, which turned the course of the Civil War. A year after
Oxford, Gov. George Wallace capitulated peacefully to the integration of the
University of Alabama, despite going through the motions of "standing in the
schoolhouse door."

The 14-hour riot came "within an eyelash" of turning into a bloodbath, said
Melvin Brown, a black master sergeant in an elite military police unit that
marched through a wall of flames and a hailstorm of brickbats to rescue the
beleaguered marshals, minutes before they ran out of tear gas. "All night long,
those people threw rocks and bottles and Molotov cocktails and jars of chemicals
that exploded on us," said Mr. Brown, now a deputy marshal himself, who plans to
travel from his home in Augusta, Ga., to be honored by the town of Oxford.

"It could have been another Kent State deal," he said. "We didn't know we were
shot at till the next morning, because of all the noise, but we had locked and
loaded. If we had known we were fired on, we would have fired back."

Mr. Doyle's book revealed a 1963 Army memorandum rejecting recommendations for
battlefield decorations for troops there because the publicity "would not be in
the best interest of the U.S. Army or the nation." In an interview, Mr. Doyle
called it "tragic" that the marshals and soldiers, who he said had saved the
university and the town, had been ignored for so long. "Forty years of denial
has robbed Mississippi of some of its greatest heroes," he said.

Even as Ole Miss relives the 1962 riots, a debate is continuing -- involving
current students and teachers and people who were here then -- about how much
more the university must do to put its ghosts to rest.

Charles Reagan Wilson, director of the university's Center for the Study of
Southern Culture, said that honoring the forgotten marshals and troops whose
sacrifice assured the integration of Ole Miss was a good start, in much the same
way as the trials in recent years of Byron De La Beckwith, Medgar Evers's
killer, and the surviving Birmingham church bombers Thomas E. Blanton Jr. and
Bobby Frank Cherry had each helped to close a chapter of history.

"That's a very upbeat story, about change and healing," Mr. Wilson said. "But
symbolism is where it gets real muddy. Southern whites don't want to give up a
flag that blacks find very offensive. There the story is much more complicated
and divisive."

Ethel Young-Minor, a professor of Afro-American studies since 1996, said she had
at first been deterred by symbols of the old Ole Miss. Despite Mr. Khayat's
efforts to eradicate those symbols, she said, "The truth is, a lot of
African-Americans still don't want to come here. They don't see Ole Miss as a
place they want to be, and Mississippi as a place they want to live. When I
first heard Ole Miss, all I thought about was James Meredith, then 'Dixie,' then
the rebel flags. There's nothing that makes you want to apply."

For all the talk of falling barriers, meanwhile -- 4 percent of the faculty is
black, including two vice chancellors -- some African-American students and
professors questioned how much longer it would be before, say, a black man or
woman is named the university's chancellor. Asked that before Saturday's
football game against Vanderbilt, David G. Sansing, the university's historian,
quickly said, "Oh, that'll never --" before catching himself and reconsidering.
State politics, he said, would make it very hard for the foreseeable future.

Others said the question was unfair, and that Ole Miss should be judged by the
same standards as the rest of academia. But Mr. Wilson acknowledged that "more
is expected of the university because of its history."

"But that can be an incentive to make the university a leader in race
relations," he said, pointing, for example, to its recent initiatives at
community organizing around the state. "That is the next stage: to take that
special burden of the past and make it a special responsibility, to be a place
where race is discussed and initiatives are begun that can make a difference."

One man who is looking forward to the discussion, at the very least, is Willie
Tankersley. In 1962, he was the chancellor's limousine driver. Mr. Tankersley,
who is black, lived next to the university, and as armed whites massed in his
yard that "miserable night," he said, he and his wife hid in their basement,
listening to radio updates with the volume turned down low.

Mr. Tankersley, now 80, admitted being unsure what to expect, or to hope for,
from next week's observance. "When this is over, will it make us better
friends?" he said. "I'd like to know."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: James H. Meredith in 1962, above, and at his car business in
Jackson, Miss. He says he will go back to Oxford next week. (Pictorial Parade);
(Suzi Altman for The New York Times)(pg. A1); "I just answered the call," Anson
Sheldon says of the Oxford riot.; Willie Tankersley was the chancellor's
limousine driver in 1962 and spent the "miserable night" of Sept. 30 in his
basement with his wife. (Photographs by Suzi Altman for The New York Times)(pg.
A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             459 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 7, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands at Central Park Rally Oppose an Iraq War

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WILSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 542 words


Those old enough to know said that yesterday's Central Park rally to protest a
United States invasion of Iraq drew a larger crowd than similar gatherings in
the mid-1960's by those who did not want the United States to get further
involved in Vietnam.

"If this is an indication of how the American people feel, a large amount of
them don't want our sons to be killed," said Frank Phillips, 89, of Long Island,
who described himself as a peace activist for 60 years.

Several thousand people filled the park's East Meadow yesterday afternoon,
taking in the sun that bathed the slight slope facing a stage where speaker
after speaker -- from activist actors to relatives of people killed in the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks to high school students -- strode to the microphone. Their
messages were as diverse as those on the signs and T-shirts and leaflets in the
crowd:

"It Takes Courage Not to Make War."

"Imagine."

"Stop the Drug War."

The event was organized by Not in Our Name, which has a Web site (www
.notinourname.net) and a CD with the same title, by Saul Williams. It was one of
several protests against an Iraq invasion organized by the group around the
country yesterday.

"Any religion that connects violence to God loses me, whether it's the murder of
a doctor at an abortion clinic or busboys, police officers and firefighters in
the World Trade Center," the actor Tim Robbins told the crowd. He condemned the
"oil men" who he said want the United States to topple Saddam Hussein.

Although Martin Sheen, who plays President Josiah Bartlet on "The West Wing,"
noted that "it's great to see a public debate on such a critical issue," no one
in the crowd seemed to be in favor of a war.

"You know what I say? I say the hell with the Patriot Act," one speaker shouted.
"Victory to the women's revolution!" said another. One man urged everyone to
take out their wallets as a show of solidarity with Amadou Diallo, who was
fatally shot by New York police officers who mistook his wallet for a weapon in
1999. Then he urged them to reach inside and pull out money for the antiwar
cause.

John Earl, a salesman from Greenville, N.Y., held a sign reading "Exxonerate"
and "BPrepared," presumably to register his unhappiness with dependence on
Middle East oil.

"When they confuse war with civil liberties and rights and lifestyle here, and
our patriotism, it's all confused," he said.

One man pulled out a comb and silently scrawled in the dirt, "Over 800 Puerto
Ricans Die 9/11 No More."

A 6-year-old girl named Sofia watched the man, then found a stick and wrote "No
War" in the dirt, with a peace symbol.

Emily Dische-Becker, a 20-year-old student at Bard College, 22 miles from
Woodstock, and a native of Berlin, said she had come to the city with friends,
and was leaving disappointed.

"It's like pop culture, concentrated teen angst," she said of the rally. "The
rhetoric is too heavy-handed. That's the problem with American activists. They
need to simplify." Someone on stage railed against police brutality and she
rolled her eyes.

Susie Mee, a fiction teacher at New York University, said she had hoped the
crowd would be larger, like those she remembered after the Vietnam War began.
"Maybe," she said, "something has to start before it can be stopped."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crowd in the East Meadow in Central Park, some holding
handmade cardboard doves, heard speeches denouncing an invasion of Iraq. (Alan
Chin for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             460 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 30, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DISSENT;
Rally in Washington Is Said to Invigorate the Antiwar Movement

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 923 words


Emboldened by a weekend antiwar protest in Washington that organizers called the
biggest since the days of the Vietnam War, groups opposed to military action in
Iraq said they were preparing a wave of new demonstrations across the country in
the next few weeks.

The demonstration on Saturday in Washington drew 100,000 by police estimates and
200,000 by organizers', forming a two-mile wall of marchers around the White
House. The turnout startled even organizers, who had taken out permits for
20,000 marchers. They expected 30 buses, and were surprised by about 650, coming
from as far as Nebraska and Florida.

A companion demonstration in San Francisco attracted 42,000 protesters, city
police there said, and smaller groups demonstrated in other cities, including
about 800 in Austin, Tex., and 2,500 in Augusta, Me.

"The rally was like a huge gust of wind into the sails of the antiwar movement,"
said Brian Becker, an organizer of the Washington protest. "Our goal was not
simply to have a big demonstration, but to give the movement confidence that it
could prevail. The massive turnout showed it's legitimate, and it's big."

Building on those demonstrations, a coalition of groups called International
Answer -- short for Act Now to Stop War and End Racism -- is asking people to
vote in a referendum called VoteNoWar.org, which organizers hope will serve as a
countervote to the Congressional resolution in support of military action in
Iraq.

The coalition, which has absorbed several smaller groups around the country, is
also planning another protest on Jan. 18 and 19 in Washington, to coincide with
the commemoration of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday and the 12th
anniversary of the Persian Gulf war. Organizers are also planning what they call
a Grass Roots Peoples' Congress to publicize the results of the referendum.

Smaller groups that attended the demonstrations in San Francisco and Washington
said they were planning their own protests back home. Protesters plan to march
in New Orleans and Tampa, Fla., this weekend; in Charleston, S.C., in
mid-November; and again in San Francisco on Nov. 22. A group in Louisiana is
planning a peace walk between Baton Rouge and New Orleans at the end of
November, and the National Council of Churches is discussing another rally in
Washington for Nov. 24.

MoveOn.org is conducting an online petition drive and has raised about $2
million for candidates, including the late Senator Paul Wellstone, who opposed a
war in Iraq.

In California, college students are leading teach-ins against the war at high
schools. Richard Becker, an organizer with Answer in San Francisco, said the
group was setting up an emergency response plan to accommodate a mass protest --
complete with sound systems, placards, the requisite permits and even portable
toilets -- on the day United States troops enter Iraq.

"There is not going to be one speech or one demonstration, after which everyone
goes home," said Barbara Lubin, the founder of the Middle East Children's
Alliance in Berkeley, Calif. "This is a movement against war, and it's building
momentum."

Those who have been organizing and attending demonstrations for several months
said the swelling size of the protests showed how much antiwar sentiment had
increased as the threat of war intensified.

In San Francisco, a march on Sept. 6 drew 2,500 people, one two weeks later,
6,000, and one on Oct. 6, 10,000.

"People are very emboldened right now," said Mike Zmolek, an organizer with the
National Network to Stop the War in Iraq. "We've been in a financial crunch
since we started -- suddenly people are sending checks out of nowhere."

Mr. Zmolek said his organization had attracted 100 new antiwar groups across the
country in the last three months.

The march in Washington was planned by International Answer, with coordinators
of local chapters working in more than two dozen cities around the country. It
attracted homemakers as well as college students, seasoned activists and those
who had never attended any kind of political rally before.

"It was beautiful," said Merrill Chapman, 35, who called herself "just a
housewife" in Charleston, S.C. "I'm in a very conservative town, and I feel like
the lone voice. Being in Washington energized me, by seeing I was not alone."

Ms. Chapman had never been to a protest before the demonstration in Washington,
but got involved after organizing a group called Thinking People in Charleston.
She is planning a rally for Nov. 16 in her city.

In Houston, Lois Wright, a 46-year-old saleswoman in a drapery workroom, said
she felt compelled to take the two-day bus ride to Washington, because the Bush
administration seemed "hellbent on going to war."

"It's O.K. to do stuff in Houston, but nobody gets to hear about it," she said.
"I felt if we were right in their faces, they couldn't ignore us."

Polls show that about 50 percent of Americans support sending ground troops to
Iraq to remove Saddam Hussein from power. Antiwar organizers acknowledge some
public support for military action, but said that until now, the voices of those
who do not support the policy have not been heard.

"I think the president has considerable support," Mr. Zmolek said, "but I think
the nation is pretty divided on this."

Certainly, there is still debate. In Austin, the University of Texas student
government passed a resolution on Oct. 22 opposing an attack, by a vote of 20 to
17. Some students seek to have that vote overturned, saying it does not reflect
the sentiment of the campus's 50,000 students.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Organizers called a demonstration in Washington on Saturday
opposing an attack on Iraq the biggest antiwar protest since the Vietnam War
era. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             461 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 1, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesting a War on Iraq

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 111 words


To the Editor:

"Rally in Washington Is Said to Invigorate the Antiwar Movement" (news article,
Oct. 30) is an overdue recognition that tens of millions of Americans, perhaps a
majority, are opposed to waging war against Iraq or any other state that has not
attacked the United States; that a peace movement is growing by leaps and
bounds; and that participants will not fade if there is an American pre-emptive
strike.

A lot of senators and representatives are going to find out that they chose to
ignore their mail and their constituents at their own political peril, and they
had better quickly figure out how to backpedal.

WILLIAM L. KATZ
New York, Oct. 30, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             462 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 10, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antiwar Protest in Italy

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of thousands of people said "No to the War Against
Iraq" at a march yesterday in Florence. Page 16. (Agence France-Presse)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             463 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 4, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: ANTI-AMERICANISM;
Small Crowds Of Pakistanis Stage Protests Against U.S.

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Jan. 3


Thousands of people in six Pakistani cities protested today against a possible
American attack on Iraq at rallies organized by a coalition of hard-line
religious parties.

But the rallies were relatively modest by Pakistani standards.

Protests in Peshawar, Karachi, Quetta, Lahore and Multan drew crowds of only
several thousand people each, according to Pakistani news reports. That is a
small number in a country of 140 million, where raucous political rallies often
attract tens of thousands of demonstrators. A rally in Islamabad, the capital,
drew only a few hundred people

Leaders from an alliance of six religious parties, which won 20 percent of the
seats in Pakistan's Parliament in October, had urged Pakistanis to attend the
rallies to voice their anger at the United States.

"Will you make sacrifices if there is an attack on Iraq? Will you start a
movement if there is an attack on Iraq?" a leader of the alliance and a Taliban
supporter, Maulana Samilul Haq, asked a crowd of 400 people in Islamabad, some
holding signs saying "Stop the Muslim Holocaust."

Pakistanis are expressing rising frustration at what they see as American
highhandedness in its policies toward Iraq, its support for Israel, F.B.I.
arrests in Pakistan and new security checks for Pakistanis seeking to enter the
United States.

A dispute along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border last week heightened tensions,
when a Pakistani border guard fired a bullet that grazed an American soldier's
head. An American jet responded, dropping a 500-pound bomb onto an abandoned
religious school where the Pakistani guard fled. No Pakistanis were injured and
the American soldier was lightly wounded. But the incident fueled the growing
hostility between Pakistani and American forces.

The bombing produced an outcry in the Pakistani tribal areas, where Americans
are viewed as conquering invaders and several dozen members of Al Qaeda,
possibly including Osama bin Laden, are believed to be hiding.

Last month, an unknown gunman killed an American soldier in Afghanistan and then
fled into Pakistan's tribal areas across the border. American military officials
have said for weeks that men crossing from the tribal areas have entered
Afghanistan and carried out attacks on American bases.

There has also been disagreement over whether American troops pursuing suspected
Taliban and Qaeda fighters in Afghanistan can enter Pakistan. American military
officials have said that the United States and Pakistan have agreed that
American soldiers can cross the border when in "hot pursuit" of enemy fighters.
But Pakistan's interior minister, Faisal Saleh Hayat, said in a television
interview today that no such agreement existed.

At the rallies today, religious alliance leaders assailed Pakistan's military
ruler, Pervez Musharraf, for cooperating with the United States.

"What did Musharraf get?" Maulana Haq asked at the rally in Islamabad. "Today
Pakistanis are humiliated the most in America and treated as third-rate
citizens. There is no rain of dollars as promised, and there are no rivers of
milk or honey."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Pakistani holds a rifle aloft at an anti-American rally in
Peshawar. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             464 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 9, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
A Rally to Support an Alliance

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: South Korean veterans, left, burned a North Korean flag
yesterday at a rally near a American military base in Osan, 40 miles south of
Seoul. They were joined by nearly 400 South Koreans who support the American
military presence in South Korea and oppose North Korea's nuclear arms program.
Many South Koreans question the role of American troops in their country.
(Photographs by Associated Press)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             465 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 15, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DISSENT;
Protest Groups Using Updated Tactics to Spread Antiwar Message

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1172 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14


As the threat of war with Iraq heightens, leaders of the antiwar movement are
feeling an urgency to mobilize the masses. But in contrast to the tactics of the
1960's, many organizers are trying to sound a note of patriotism and distance
themselves from the stereotypical images of angry flag burners or scruffy
anarchists.

Marches are still a crucial tool, and protest leaders are hoping that tens of
thousands will turn out for an antiwar rally here on Saturday. But organizers
are also trying to spread their message through the Internet and enlist a
diverse range of allies.

In recent weeks, groups representing labor, the environment and the poor have
agreed to help raise money and commit bodies to local and national protest
efforts.

This week a group of Republican business executives organized by movement
leaders published a full-page letter in The Wall Street Journal under the title
"A Republican Dissent on Iraq," warning President Bush: "The world wants Saddam
Hussein disarmed. But you must find a better way to do it."

Activists say branching out is necessary to combat a popular president and a
public mood altered by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.

"It's like the 60's is the only lens through which many people grasp protest,
but in many ways we've moved on," said Kevin Martin, executive director of Peace
Action, a 45- year-old organization that has joined United for Peace, a
coalition of 120 groups protesting a war with Iraq.

Participants in the growing efforts cut across the political spectrum, from
far-left radicals to cautious conservatives. Last Saturday, at a meeting in
Chicago, representatives from labor unions that supported both the Vietnam and
Persian Gulf wars adopted a resolution opposing a war with Iraq and raised
$30,000 for the movement.

But because many of the new techniques occur online and in closed-door meetings,
organizers are aware that they need to increase the visibility and volume of
their protests.

"It's easy to network with the Mennonites. It's harder to go on Fox News and
have people yell at you," said David Potorti, a member of September Eleventh
Families for Peaceful Tomorrows, a group whose founding members all lost
immediate relatives in the 2001 attacks. "But time is running out, and our
biggest challenge now is to get out there and be heard by people outside of
ourselves."

A flurry of public dissent is planned over the next several weeks, tied to
critical dates like Jan. 27, when Hans Blix, the chief United Nations weapons
inspector, gives the latest report on his findings in Iraq, and Jan. 28, when
the president gives his State of the Union address.

Some efforts are directed at people who may be skeptical about the war, but who
are not comfortable attending marches and who do not want their names or money
attached to catch-all activism that includes protests of Starbucks or sport
utility vehicles.

Last month, Win Without War, the most mainstream of the antiwar coalitions,
announced its formation with a carefully worded mission statement. "We are
patriotic Americans who share the belief that Saddam Hussein cannot be allowed
to possess weapons of mass destruction," the statement read. "But we believe
that a pre-emptive military invasion of Iraq will harm American national
interests."

Business Leaders for Sensible Priorities, a member of the coalition, was
responsible for the signed letter in The Wall Street Journal.

"Let's be clear," the letter reads. "We supported the gulf war. We supported our
intervention in Afghanistan. We accept the logic of a just war. But Mr.
President, your war on Iraq does not pass the test."

The letter's primary backer, Edward Hamm, a retired Minnesota businessman, said
he sought out the business group because of a lack of organized Republican
dissent.

It did not matter, Mr. Hamm said, that the group's founder was the liberal
entrepreneur Ben Cohen, co-founder of Ben & Jerry's. The group had the structure
to help Mr. Hamm get his message out, and they allowed him to frame it from a
Republican point of view.

"There's no one in the world more for gunboat diplomacy than me, but this
administration hasn't proven its case," said Mr. Hamm, who said he gave several
hundred thousand dollars a year to the Republican Party. "Insane left-wingers
are not going to convince people of that. You need Republicans, business people
and military people. I started casting about, and I found these guys."

Much of the efforts are taking place online, where Internet protest
organizations like MoveOn.org and TrueMajority.com are struggling to transform
Web-based dissent into actual activism.

The MoveOn Web site enlists users to sign a petition opposing a pre-emptive
strike against Iraq. It then instantly sorts and logs signers by state, to
facilitate organizing at a local level. Users can make credit card donations to
antiwar efforts.

When the organization decided last month to extend its work online to the
production of antiwar newspaper and television advertisements, the site raised
more than $300,000 in 48 hours. The average donation, said MoveOn directors, was
about $30.

"You have to meet people where they are," said Eli Pariser, 22, international
campaigns director for the online group. "You get a lot of people to chip in a
little bit, and then it's our job to translate that into something bigger."

In addition to large groups with deep pockets, the protest movement is reaching
down to the neighborhood level, encouraging citizen support in the form of
letters to political leaders, discussions at churches and community centers and
small-scale public protests.

Some grass-roots organizations have been wary of joining the larger antiwar
effort, fearing a loss of financing from conservative foundations that support
the administration's position on the war. But fears about broader losses to
social programs are bringing more domestic groups into the fray.

"The foreign and domestic issues intersect in a way that could create a real
crisis for the millions of people here in poverty," said Wesley Woo, a field
organizer in San Francisco with the Center for Community Change, a 35-year-old
organization that works on issues including health care, housing and welfare
reform. Mr. Woo's group, which has never joined an organized antiwar effort,
fears that the billions devoted to a war will mean less money for their efforts,
and it has joined both Win Without War and United for Peace.

For all the new ways of drawing people into the movement, antiwar protesters are
concerned that too much of their activity still exists among like minds behind
closed doors. Ultimately, organizers realize, few things can replace a big,
rowdy rally. Nearly all of the groups participating in the new movement are
urging members to attend this weekend's rally.

Organized by International Answer, the rally will include a march to the
Washington Naval Yard, where a mock weapons inspection team will demand access
to weapons of mass destruction in the United States. Not exactly a mainstream
move, but one sure to draw attention.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eli Pariser is international campaigns director for MoveOn.org,
an Internet site that helps coordinate opposition to a war with Iraq. (Fred R.
Conrad/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             466 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: PROTESTS OVERSEAS;
In the Street, Across Europe, a Weekend of Antiwar Rallies

BYLINE:  By MARLISE SIMONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 555 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Jan. 19


Antiwar demonstrators took to the streets again today on a weekend of protests
in numerous European cities, with marchers silently or loudly objecting to
America's threats to use its military might against Iraq.

About 10,000 people ignored chilly rains as they marched through the center of
Brussels this afternoon to call for peace and to wave angry slogans against the
Bush administration like "Bush only wants oil" and "No to Bushery."

In Ankara, Turkey's capital, thousands of people took part in an antiwar
demonstration as Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
arrived in the country to push for American use of Turkish bases in the event of
a war with Iraq.

At the Vatican, leaders of world religions appealed to believers in all faiths
to work to avert a conflict in Iraq. The Vatican-sponsored meeting was attended
by people from 15 countries representing Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism,
Buddhism, Jainism, Zoroastrianism and Sikhism.

"Opting for peace does not mean a passive acquiescence to evil or compromise of
principle," their concluding statement said. "It demands an active struggle
against hatred, oppression and disunity, but not by using methods of violence."

The rally in Brussels, the capital of the European Union, was called by a
coalition named "Stop U.S.A." and included labor union leaders, Socialists,
environmentalists and Arab immigrants who have demonstrated in the past for the
Palestinian cause.

A woman carrying a banner saying "Shame on Humanity" said money should be spent
to improve health and well-being, not on killing. A couple and their children
who said they had traveled three hours to reach the North Station where the
march began, pointed to a poster saying "Blood and oil do not mix."

The protests in Brussels today remained peaceful, but they follow several days
of unrest this week in the Belgian port of Antwerp, where American military
materiel was being loaded aboard ships. Small bands of protesters have tried to
block -- albeit symbolically -- the transports with American military trucks and
helicopters coming from Germany and destined in part for the Persian Gulf
region.

In Britain, whose government is America's most hawkish anti-Saddam Hussein ally
in Europe, several hundred demonstrators gathered today for a second day at the
British military headquarters at the Northwood base in northwest London.

Early in the day they held a multifaith service near the base, with readings
from the Bible and the Koran and chants by Buddhist monks. But late in the day,
the police detained two dozen protesters who had chained themselves together
outside the military base and who refused to leave.

In Spain, near the military base of Torrejon, several thousand people also
converged to deplore the preparations for war, calling on their government to
"stop the war before it starts."

But this weekend's main antiwar protests in Europe were on Saturday to coincide
with those in the United States and other parts of the world.

Opinion polls across Europe indicate that opposition to the use of military
force against Iraq is strong.

Rallies were held on Saturday in Germany, Italy, Russia and Sweden, but by far
the largest turnout was in France. Thousands marched in Paris and in at least a
dozen other French cities. More marches are planned for mid-February.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A march in Brussels yesterday included a banner that read, "Lift
the embargo on the children of Iraq." (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             467 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shooting Kills One and Wounds 24 in Venezuela

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 20


One person was killed and two dozen were wounded by gunfire today during street
clashes in Venezuela, officials said, as former President Jimmy Carter tried to
salvage peace talks between President Hugo Chavez and his opponents.

Clashes involving the police and rival protesters broke out when Mr. Chavez's
supporters attacked an opposition march in Charallave, about 30 miles south of
Caracas. Demonstrators exchanged volleys of bottles and rocks.

Local television images showed a man opening fire into a crowd with a handgun as
he rode on the roof of a jeep. Each side blamed the other for the violence.

One man was shot dead and 24 people were wounded by gunfire in the fighting, a
security official said. At least four others were injured in the clashes.

Venezuela's tense, often violent political conflict has intensified during a
seven-week-long opposition strike aimed at pressing Mr. Chavez to resign and to
call new elections.

Mr. Carter, on his second visit to Caracas in less than a year, held meetings
with Mr. Chavez and the opposition, who have been locked in a political standoff
since April, when the Venezuelan leader was briefly deposed and then restored to
power.

Negotiations under the guidance of Cesar Gaviria, leader of the Organization of
American States, were thrown into doubt over the weekend after he threatened to
pull out of the talks. They have been stalled over the timing of elections and
how to end the opposition strike that has cut oil output in Venezuela, one of
the world's major oil producing nations, and severely disrupted fuel and food
supplies.

The strike has raised international concern over global oil supplies at a time
when energy markets are already jittery over a possible United States-led war
against Iraq.

The United States, Brazil and other governments have agreed to form a group of
six nations to lend weight to Mr. Gaviria's mediation efforts. Mr. Chavez tried
over the weekend to win support from Brazil to expand the group to include more
nations of his choice, especially left-leaning ones, but did not succeed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             468 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Protest Rooted in Democracy

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 125 words


To the Editor:

Your notion of the size of the antiwar movement is necessarily vague (editorial,
Jan. 20).

Polls show that far more Americans agree with the need to remove Saddam Hussein
by force if diplomacy doesn't work.

The latest protests added nothing to the debate. Charges that the administration
actually wants a shooting war and the claim that this would be a war only for
oil are equally ridiculous. Even the protest against the threat of war is
ridiculous, since we know from past experience with Saddam Hussein that the
threat of war is the only hope of avoiding war.

Iraq is a country already "at war" and under occupation. Our assault, if it
comes, will end the suffering there, not begin it.

MARK R. GODBURN
Salisbury, Conn., Jan. 20, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             469 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 56 words


An article on Sunday about protests against the threat of war against Iraq
quoted incorrectly from a comment by the actor Martin Sheen, who addressed
demonstrators in San Francisco. He said: "You all know what I do for a living.
This is what I do to stay alive" (not "You all know what I do for work; this is
what I do for a living").

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             470 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands Rally in Ivory Coast to Protest Peace Plan

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Feb. 1


Virtually sounding the death knell on a French-brokered peace accord aimed at
ending a four-month-long civil war in this country, Ivoirians by the tens of
thousands took to the streets today to denounce the deal, as West African
leaders huddled with the Ivoirian president in an effort to restore peace.

The rally, not far from President Laurent Gbagbo's office here in the commercial
capital, was the largest in the country since a failed coup attempt plunged
Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa producer, into the brutal war.

Crowd estimates ranged from 100,000 to 300,000.

The peace accord, negotiated during talks in Marcoussis, France, provides for a
government of national reconciliation, in which the elected government of Mr.
Gbagbo and the rebels who have tried to oust him would share power.

Mr. Gbagbo's supporters have said they will never turn over any piece of their
government to insurgents.

Since returning from France nearly a week ago, Mr. Gbagbo has said virtually
nothing about whether he plans to abide by the peace deal, except to call some
elements of the accord "proposals." It was not clear when he planned to speak to
his compatriots.

The streets of Abidjan apparently spoke for him today. Leaders of the Young
Patriots, an umbrella group that organized the rally, wore T-shirts emblazoned
with an X over the word Marcoussis. They reserved their wrath for France, this
country's former colonial ruler, which brokered the peace talks. They accuse the
French of forcing their president's hand. They have appealed to the United
States to intervene on their behalf. American government officials have
expressed support of the fragile peace deal.

Still, the affection for Americans and anger toward the French was on full
display today. Demonstrators waved American flags. One held up a photograph of
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. "We Trust in USA," read one placard.
Another: "Bush please help Ivory Coast against French terrorism." R. Kelly and
Aaliyah songs blasted improbably from the stage speakers.

Anyone who could speak a few words of English did, whether broken or polished.
"Do you want me to speak French?" the firebrand leader of the Young Patriots,
Charles Ble Goude, shouted from the stage. The crowd hollered its disapproval.

"Are you ready for English?" he shouted again. The crowd hollered heartily.

"I want the United States to come and help my country, which is being destroyed
by the right wing of the French government," Mr. Goude, 30, said in an interview
later in the afternoon.

"Ivoirians love America because America governs peace of the world," said Zadi
Any Roland, 49, a rally participant.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tens of thousands of Ivoirians gathered in Abidjan yesterday to
protest a French-brokered peace deal. Many called for American intervention.
(Michael Kamber for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             471 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 6, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mobilizing a Theater of Protest. Again.;
Artists Try to Recapture Their Role as Catalysts for Debate and Dissent

BYLINE:  By JULIE SALAMON

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1815 words


When Sam Hamill, a poet and founder of Copper Canyon Press in Port Townsend,
Wash., was invited to a poetry symposium by Laura Bush last month, his response
was to send e-mail messages to 50 friends and colleagues asking them for antiwar
poems to send to Mrs. Bush. In four days he received 1,500 responses.

"I didn't know there were 1,500 poets in America," he said. After learning of
the protest, the White House postponed the symposium on the works of Emily
Dickinson, Langston Hughes and Walt Whitman. Noelia Rodriguez, Ms. Bush's press
secretary, said: "While Mrs. Bush respects and believes in the right of all
Americans to express their opinions, she, too, has opinions and believes that it
would be inappropriate to turn what is intended to be a literary event into a
political forum."

For those opposing war with Iraq, the cancellation of the poetry symposium
symbolizes the part the arts can play in politics. Hearing the drumbeat of a new
war, through readings, concerts, art exhibitions and theater, artists are trying
to recapture their place as catalysts for public debate and dissent.

If the immediate artistic response to the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and
Washington was the theater of grief, some of the nation's poets, musicians,
writers, actors and playwrights have moved on to the theater of protest. The
prospect of an imminent military confrontation with Iraq has incited a new sense
of creative urgency.

"I don't think it's an accident that in totalitarian societies they always
arrest the artists first, though we don't seem particularly dangerous," said
Andre Gregory, the theater director and actor. "I think the responsibility of
the artist, each of us in our way, is to tell the truth. And the truth generally
involves a great deal of ambiguity, and in times of war ambiguity and paradox
are the first things to go. People want simple black and white answers."

With Wallace Shawn, his collaborator in "My Dinner With Andre," Mr. Gregory
presented a theater piece at Cooper Union in October called "An Evening of
Conscience," along with a variety show of well-known performers including Edward
Asner, Eve Ensler, Tony Kushner, Danny Glover and Pete Seeger. That event was
sponsored by Not in Our Name, a nonprofit group formed by writers, artists and
academics in May to organize opposition to the war. Among those who have
endorsed the group's "statement of conscience" are Alice Walker, Barbara
Kingsolver and the artistic directors of the Goodman Theater and the Steppenwolf
Theater Company in Chicago.

Grace Paley, a writer of short stories and a lifelong political activist, was
one of those who responded to Mr. Hamill's call for poems. Ms. Paley, one of the
founders of the Greenwich Village Peace Center in 1961, said she was impressed
by how fast writers responded. "Some of us were in the street about the Vietnam
War in 1961, but there were no big demonstrations for four years," she said.
"This is moving much faster, but so is Bush."

Ms. Paley and her husband, Robert Nichols, also a writer, for the last several
weeks have been attending weekly vigils against the war on the bridge between
New Hampshire and Vermont, where the couple lives. On the bridge someone placed
a sign that said, "A million bitter enemies will be born out of this war."

For those like Ms. Paley, this protest is part of a life spent speaking out
against the direction of American politics. But for many artists and performers
of the post-Vietnam generation, the threat of military action has focused
inchoate feelings of distress.

"We oppose this war for slightly different reasons and slightly different
politics and philosophies, but we have come together to say we oppose this war
and the attack on civil liberties since Sept. 11," said Anne de Mare, a
playwright and a founder of Theaters Against War, or THAW. This group, which
began meeting about two months ago, includes the actress Kathleen Chalfant, best
know for her performance in "Wit," and Linda Chapman, associate artistic
director of the New York Theater Workshop.

Theaters Against War has signed on 43 theaters to participate in a day of
protest on March 2, which will include staged readings and performances, as well
as street theater events around New York City.

The artistic response has spread beyond New York. The Asian Arts Initiative, a
nonprofit organization in Philadelphia, for example, is accepting proposals for
a performance series called "Everywhere Is War: An Artists Exchange," scheduled
for June 20, featuring dance, music, spoken word and theater.

The Zilkha Gallery at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., is presenting
"Good Morning, America" through March 2, an exhibition of artistic responses to
life and politics in the United States after Sept. 11.

Among the works is a video piece called "America's Army" by Barbara Pollack. It
is a videotaped portrait of Ms. Pollack's son, Max, playing an interactive game
produced by the United States Army for teenage boys. Within 10 minutes Max's
digital character on the screen goes through basic training, enters a war zone
and is killed in action.

In Berkeley, Calif., on Friday night, Ani DiFranco, Ozomatli, and Michael Franti
and Spearhead performed at a sold-out concert to raise money for antiwar
organizations. Ms. DiFranco's work has always had a political, mainly feminist
slant, and Ozomatli, a Latino band, has also performed for a variety of causes,
but Mr. Franti's group has specialized in a utopian, feel-good style he has
called "hippie hop." The Berkeley concert also featured Saul Williams, the
poet-rapper, who wrote the Not in Our Name theme song, which includes this
lyric: "It's not about retaliation,/your history of war does nothing more/than
scar imagination."

And in Pittsburgh a steelworker-turned-troubadour named Mike Stout opened a
recent meeting of antiwar protesters. "I would say Joan Baez and Phil Ochs have
found many worthy successors," said Staughton Lynd, a retired lawyer now living
near Youngstown, Ohio. He said he organized the first march on Washington
against the Vietnam War in April 1965 and has been protesting ever since, with a
special focus on prisoner's rights.

Perhaps surprisingly, some of the artists who were ready to march against the
Vietnam War are not as eager to raise their voices now, when the focus is Iraq
and Al Qaeda.

Peter Yarrow, of Peter, Paul and Mary , is more likely to be singing "Where Have
All the Flowers Gone?," once the anthem of the Vietnam protest movement, in
elementary-school classes than on the street. Mr. Yarrow has kept a distance
from organized rallies against the United States buildup to war in Iraq.

For the last four years he has been using familiar protest music in Operation
Respect, an educational program intended to teach children what he calls
"nonviolent conflict-resolution tools," a project that requires the endorsement
of local school boards and national politicians.

"I am urgently trying to find common ground on a nonpartisan basis to reach for
nonviolent solutions through the social and emotional growth of children," he
said. "I do not believe that adults are really capable of changing what is in
their hearts. Therefore I believe we should create conditions for peace in the
future in the children before they're taught to hate and to fear."

Similarly, Edward Sorel, the illustrator and a pacifist, said he cannot get a
handle on how to depict the current political situation through his work.
"Vietnam was a clear case of us being not only in the wrong place but on the
wrong side," he said. "It was much easier than this. Here one group of religious
fanatics represented by George Bush and Mr. Ashcroft is pitted against religious
fanatics even more despotic than they are. I find the whole thing very
confusing. So I take my tranquilizer and go to funny movies."

Still, some celebrities have predictably hopped on board, giving antiwar
sentiments the kind of theatricality television loves. The pop singer Sheryl
Crowe showed up at the American Music Awards wearing a T-shirt proclaiming, "War
Is Not the Answer."

Actors who routinely speak out on behalf of political causes, like Susan
Sarandon, Martin Sheen and Tim Robbins, have taken part in organized rallies;
others, like George Clooney, have merely made anti-Bush remarks while promoting
their movies and ended up fodder for attack by Bill O'Reilly of Fox News and
other conservative commentators. At the televised Sundance awards, the actress
Maggie Gyllenhaal, one of the hosts, concluded with an antiwar statement.

These forays into politics by Hollywood figures can backfire, and sometimes from
their own political naivete. Sean Penn took a trip to Iraq -- what he called a
"fact-finding mission" -- and wound up in a battle with Mr. O'Reilly, who
specializes in his own kind of political theater.

For Kathryn Blume, a 35-year-old playwright, actor and occasional yoga
instructor, political awakening occurred on Jan. 4. That is when she heard about
Theaters Against War and the group's plans to have a series of theatrical
protests in March.

Ms. Blume had been working on a screenplay adaptation of Aristophanes'
"Lysistrata." The play tells the story of women from opposing states who unite
to end the Peloponnesian War by withholding sex from their mates until the men
agree to lay down their swords.

When Ms. Blume learned of the protests planned by Theaters Against War, she
said, "it was like setting a match to tinder." Within 24 hours she and a friend,
Sharron Bower, casting director for the Mint Theater, decided to organize a day
of readings of "Lysistrata" around the world.

The two women began sending e-mail messages. Ms. Blume then called a producer at
National Public Radio, which did a piece about the project on Jan. 16, and that
set off another round of responses. More than 313 readings of the play have been
scheduled for March 3 in homes and theaters, and during a live Internet
broadcast taking place in New Zealand, Norway and England. People have signed on
in 28 countries.

One reading will take place in the home of Rita Mills, an office manager for an
auto dealer in Tucson. Ms. Mills, 50, had never heard of the play but was
intrigued when she heard Ms. Blume discussing it on NPR. "I'm not a huge
activist," Ms. Mills said. "I just think the war is atrocious, and it's wrong."
Her grown son's girlfriend dug up an old copy of the play she had held onto from
high school. After reading the text, Ms. Mills decided this was perfect material
for her writers' group..

"We don't sit around and talk about war," Ms. Mills said. "It seems so far away
from us in Tucson, in this little neighborhood we live in. But it's everywhere
on the television, it's in your face. This play is a way for people to get
together and say something for peace, all these people all over the world doing
the same thing. This has to have some effect on somebody somewhere."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Artists have their say: Above, Joan Baez, second from left, and
Martin Sheen, joined an antiwar protest in San Francisco. Top right, Micah
Wright transforms a World War II poster into a contemporary protest for the
Propaganda Remix Project. Above right, Milton Glaser's button, which said
"Pre-emtive War Is Terrorism," was altered for distribution to readers of The
Nation. Below, Ani DiFranco adds her voice to the protest at a concert in in
Berkeley, Calif. (Reuters); (Micah Wright); (Design by Milton Glaser); (Susan
Regan for The New York Times)(pg. E1); Lily Raji offered opinions and T-shirts
at an antiwar benefit concert in Berkeley, Calif., that included Ani DiFranco
and Ozomatli. (Susan Regan for The New York Times)(pg. E5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             472 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 6, 2003 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

MAKING BOOKS;
Poets Pit Pens Against Swords

BYLINE:   By Martin Arnold

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 975 words


Does poetry matter? Few but other poets may read it. Auden wrote that "poetry
makes nothing happen." Except perhaps when violent events are upon us. Then it
can cut through the darkness, console, summon. War and poetry, for instance,
have always been connected, and now, at the what seems the moment before war,
America's poets are suddenly again playing a traditional, if at times quixotic
role of poets as spokesmen for dissent.

Paradoxically, war and poetry were conjoined again last month, and the
slumbering legions of American poets were set marching when Laura Bush postponed
a Feb. 12 White House symposium on the works of Emily Dickinson, Langston Hughes
and Walt Whitman. Some of the poets invited to the event said they would use it
to protest war against Iraq. Of course, poetry has not always been used for
protest in war. Poignant patriotic verse, written from war zones, often made
war's violence seem less meaningless.

Perhaps the ultimate role of poets is to be hidden but ready like firefighters
to come forth in emergency. If so, Auden was wrong. Poetry concentrates thought
and emotion, and it emerged to console after Sept. 11. Now Mrs. Bush has
summoned it, accidentally, once again, this time to its traditional duty of
protest and dissent. Sam Hamill, a poet and founder of the Copper Canyon Press
in Port Townsend, Wash., has organized a poetic protest in which he has urged
poets to deluge the White House with anti-war poems. He said that as of Tuesday
about 3,500 poems had been collected.

On Feb. 16 nine poets -- including Ruth Stone, the 1992 National Book Award
winner -- will conduct a reading at the First Congregational Church in
Manchester, Vt., sponsored by the local Northshire Bookstore. It is being called
"A Poetry Reading in Honor of the Right to Protest as a Patriotic and Historical
Tradition." They will read the work of the poets picked by Mrs. Bush for her
symposium: the two revolutionaries Hughes and Whitman, and Dickinson. And their
own poems. (There will be a similar reading at New York University on Wednesday
at 1 p.m. at the Bobst Library.)

Poets may rightly grumble that they aren't read or paid enough, but in times of
crisis it's the poets, of all the artists in all countries, who suddenly seem
the most important. Robert Lowell was a face of protest during the Vietnam war.
Rupert Brooke and Robert Graves were among those who, writing from the trenches
in World War I, best conveyed the anguish of war in what was not protest but
patriotic poetry.

So now, hardly surprisingly, we have our poets stepping forward to protest war,
at what appears a fairly late moment. Why are poets the leading dissenters?
Galway Kinnell, who declined his invitation to the White House symposium but
will be reading in Vermont, said simply: "It's poetry's duty and part of its
role to speak out. This ferment by poets had its beginnings with poetry readings
against the war in Vietnam."

Mr. Hamill said, "I think poets have become the conscience of our culture." He
added: "I was inspired by the antiwar rallies of the 60's. But protest has
always been the role of the poets. Read Whitman's editorials on slavery. He was
out there long before anyone else." (Well, yes, Whitman was a newspaperman,
too.)

Jay Parini, who will also be reading in Vermont, said he accepted the White
House invitation happily "because I thought I could have said something about
the war directly to Mrs. Bush." He said he believed poets become important in
crisis time "because our language is pure, and politicians abuse language." He
added: "It might take time, but the language of poetry seeps through. Poets like
Robert Lowell made a difference during Vietnam."

Poetry has a grand history as an avenging sword in Latin America. William
O'Daly, who will read in Vermont, said: "In Latin America historically people
often looked to their poets for guidance. In Chile it was Pablo Neruda. In China
it's always been a tradition. We haven't reached that in this country yet, but
we will get to embrace the role of poets in the political world, if we are
willing to invite those of opposing ideas."

The United States poet laureate, Billy Collins, said, "A lot of the poetry of
protest will have a short shelf life unless the poems transcend the events." He
said the poems written "from the trenches by British poets in World War I are
still being read today, are very relevant." Mr. Collins is not among the Vermont
readers.

Jody Gladding, who will be at Vermont, said: "I think poets may hopefully be
able to articulate what everybody is thinking. In other cultures, like Latin
America, that's traditional."

The common theme among poets seems to be their belief that the beauty and
precision of their use of language can make a difference. David Budbill said,
"Telling the truth in vivid language committed to humanity is important for
people to hear, because politicians don't." And Greg Delanty said, "One
advantage poets have is that we are not encumbered like politicians worrying
about how our words affect our careers."

Edward Morrow, a co-owner of the Northshire Bookstore with his wife, Barbara,
said they were sponsoring the reading event because they had become incensed
when they read letters in newspapers calling war dissenters unpatriotic. "Who
better than poets to refute that?"' he asked. "They reflect society and see its
underlying truths."

Poets have been clearing away sloppy thoughts since the beginning of literature,
unfortunately not always with the grand witty imagination of the Greek
playwright and comic poet Aristophanes. Like most poets, he was against war.
Unlike most, he had a great idea to prevent it. He came up with the preposterous
thought that women should withhold sex until their men gave up their warring
ways. Women are so wonderful: they did it. And it worked. Read all about it in
"Lysistrata."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2003



CORRECTION: The Making Books column yesterday, about protests by poets against
war misstated the year that one of them, Ruth Stone, won the National Book
Award. It was 2002, not 1992.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Hamill, poet and publisher, is asking colleagues to send
antiwar poems to the White House. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             473 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 7, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
U.S. Issues Warning On Terrorist Threats

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6


Increasingly jittery about the heightened threat of terrorist attacks, the
United States warned Americans overseas today to "remain vigilant" and avoid
attending public demonstrations that could be the site of attacks.

The advisory follows a rise in the last several weeks in what the authorities
consider to be credible intelligence reports on terrorist threats. Officials say
they are concerned that terrorists might be plotting a round of attacks for
later this month, perhaps timed to coincide with the end of the Muslim
pilgrimage to Mecca and the increasing prospect of war with Iraq.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             474 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 14, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Has Held U.S.-Based Dissident Incommunicado Since April

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 13


More than nine months after his detention for traveling on a false passport, a
United States-based dissident from China is still being held incommunicado and
his relatives have received no formal notice of the charges.

The dissident, Yang Jianli, 39, is a permanent resident of the United States
with doctorates from the University of California and Harvard. His wife and two
sons, who live in Brookline, Mass., are American citizens.

His sister, an optometrist from Maryland, and his brother, a Communist Party
member and cultural official in Shandong Province, came to Beijing this week in
their latest search for answers, which has been fruitless so far.

"I just want to see my brother," said the sister, Yang Jianhua, 47, in a tearful
interview. "For more than nine months now we haven't had any access, and no
lawyers will take on the case, because they say they must see an arrest notice."

The siblings visited several police and other bureaus but were given what they
described as a runaround -- told that they must look elsewhere or that no
inquiries were possible without an arrest document.

Last June, the police told the brother by telephone that Mr. Yang was formally
arrested, but they would not specify the charges or provide the written notice
that is normally required by law.

In a written response to questions today, China's State Council asserted that
the Beijing Public Security Bureau "has, in accordance with the legal procedure,
informed his relatives in China."

Mr. Yang was originally detained for the false passport, but the authorities
"discovered that Yang was suspected of other criminal activities," the response
said. "The judicial department is now carrying on further investigation on him
in accordance with the law," it said.

Officials gave no hint of their suspicions, but if they charge Mr. Yang with
subversion because of his democracy advocacy abroad, he could face stiff
penalties.

Mr. Yang moved to the United States in 1985 to pursue a Ph.D. in mathematics at
Berkeley. But in 1989, as pro-democracy demonstrations around Tiananmen Square
reached a climax, he rushed back to China to take part. After the bloody
crackdown on June 4 of that year, he fled to the United States and has been on a
Chinese government blacklist ever since, repeatedly denied permission to visit.

After the searing experience of 1989, Mr. Yang devoted himself full time to
politics. He enrolled at Harvard, earning a doctorate in political economy. He
started the Foundation for China in the 21st Century, which publishes an
electronic newsletter, and he wrote magazine articles and testified before
Congress.

Last spring as worker demonstrations erupted in northeastern China, Mr. Yang
decided to use a false passport and see things at first hand, his wife has said.
He entered the country, but on April 26 he was detained in the southern city of
Kunming.

His wife, Christina Fu, flew to China to make inquiries but was refused entry at
the Beijing airport.

In late June, Mr. Yang's brother, Yang Jianjun, 52, received a phone call from
the local police saying his brother had been formally arrested and was in jail
in Beijing. Since then, the relatives say, they have heard nothing.

"I just checked with a lawyer again today, and the lack of notice is clearly
illegal," said the brother, clearly shaken by the official handling of the case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             475 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: BRITAIN;
Antiwar Marchers Are Hoping They Can Change Blair's Mind

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 14


Hundreds of thousands of peace demonstrators have gathered in European capitals
to march on Saturday against the United States-led campaign that threatens war
in Iraq. But nowhere is a huge turnout so politically fraught as it is in
London.

In Berlin and Paris, marchers will be in step with governments opposed to
Washington's war plans. But in London a large turnout could undermine
Washington's staunchest European ally, Prime Minister Tony Blair, denying him a
show of consensus in his own country.

"Tomorrow the world will say no to war in rallies across the globe," Andrew
Murray, the head of the Stop the War Coalition said in a newspaper article
today. "But London will be the most important, because ours is the war leader
who can be broken. And if he remains deaf to a nation's plea for peace, he will
be."

Britain is committing 40,000 troops to join American forces in the Persian Gulf,
far more than any other European country, so it is central to America's desire
to be seen as not acting alone.

"We feel that in Britain we do have the historic responsibility," said Lindsey
German, another leader of the Stop the War Coalition, formed after Sept. 11,
2001, as a grouping of hundreds of organizations, from pro-Palestinian Muslims
to hard-core leftists, with a leavening of pacifists, politicians, celebrities,
environmentalists, intellectuals and labor union figures.

"If Blair did change his mind, Bush would find it very difficult to go to war,"
Ms. German said. "People in the United States are very reluctant to go to war
without allies."

So close have those two men become, in the eyes of many Britons, that the Daily
Mirror -- a sponsor of the march to be held on Saturday -- rigged a Valentine's
Day front-page photograph in a heart-shaped frame showing President Bush and Mr.
Blair kissing, with the headline "Make Love Not War."

The inclusionary sweep of the antiwar coalition has made some people uneasy
about marching alongside organizations with different long-term aims. One of the
official slogans of the London march is "Freedom for Palestine," raising fears
among some protesters that the march will be seen as anti-Israeli or
anti-Semitic.

"What we have always said is that this is a criticism of the state of Israel,
not a criticism of Jewish people," Ms. German said.

The march here is co-sponsored by the Muslim Association of Britain, which has
differences with other groups in the march.

"These are not permanent alliances," said Assam Tamimi, a Palestinian organizer.
"These are alliances on issues where we might find common ground with the left
-- the far left, even -- like foreign policy, Palestine and Iraq. We don't see
eye to eye on many other issues."

Ms. German said, "The coalition is about stopping the war on terrorism, the war
that Bush launched after Sept. 11."

So will that give succor to Saddam Hussein? That is not the intention, Ms.
German said, but "if Saddam Hussein feels that he's in a stronger position after
tomorrow, the British government has only got itself to blame."

The breadth of the alliance is one reason organizers are anticipating a big
turnout, in excess of the 400,000 who marched last year to support hunters and
other rural Britons against proposed restrictions on hunting of foxes and other
animals.

But another aspect is the sense that many people who would not usually march in
protest have decided to do so this time, reflecting a wider unease.

"People do feel it can make a difference in a way that in some countries it
would not affect the international stage," Ms. German said. "People feel very
strongly that the evidence has not been convincing, conclusive enough to go to
war.

"But I also think it fits into a more general discontent. Transport and health
services are underfunded, but there's endless money for going to war."

Such discontent was also reflected in some skepticism about a high security
alert at London's airports, one of the biggest in memory.

At Heathrow Airport, the police briefly evacuated part of a terminal today
because of a suspicious-looking package. On Thursday at Gatwick Airport, an
entire terminal was closed for hours after a man arrived on a flight from
Colombia with a hand grenade in his luggage. Two people arrested west of London
on Thursday were released today, the police said.

The alert appears to have been prompted by fears that Al Qaeda is planning an
attack on a civilian airliner. But the authorities have not given an
explanation, and that has left people to ponder the real extent of the terrorist
threat.

"The threat that has led to this unprecedented security is not from terrorists
but from the peace march," said a letter to The Guardian signed by Simon
Whitehead of Suffolk. "I wasn't going to go, but I will now."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             476 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Fundamental Right to March

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 197 words


To the Editor:

Re "The Antiwar Non-March" (editorial, Feb. 14):

The freedom to march is a fundamental right that goes to the core of our
constitutional democracy.

We need to undo this week's terrible precedent that prohibited antiwar
protesters from marching through the streets of New York City.

The argument that the police can no longer police the protest marches because of
the financial costs and the post-9/11 security concerns is unpersuasive. First,
many veterans of protest marches believe that the police overpolice these
events. Second, why are the police still willing to "protect" a St. Patrick's
Day Parade if security concerns and costs are suddenly so important?

New Yorkers should not be hostile to and threatened by protest marches. They are
a rich tradition that has helped bring needed public attention to injustices and
inequalities that warranted change.New York would not be the great city it is
today without New Yorkers over the years marching in our streets for social
justice causes.

NORMAN SIEGEL
STEVEN HYMAN
New York, Feb. 14, 2003

The writers are, respectively, the executive director and a board member of the
Freedom Legal Defense and Education Project.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             477 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Poets as Leaders

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 159 words


To the Editor:

Leonard Garment's patronizing attitude toward poets is an insult to serious art
("A Song of Themselves," Op-Ed, Feb. 8).

For the sake of promoting "the arts," he would have artists seen but not heard.
Its condescension aside, his imputation of narcissism is dead wrong; the poets
impelled to protest are in fact putting their principles, and their true
vocation as the voice of individual conscience, above their immediate
self-interest.

In Europe and Latin America, artists are treated not as unruly children but as
cultural leaders. They are subsidized (or persecuted) by their governments
because their role in society is considered essential, not decorative.

I wonder if a European cultural figure would consider Laura Bush's tea and cake
fair trade for remaining silent on the most vigilant national issue of our time.


BILL WADSWORTH
New York, Feb. 11, 2003

The writer is a former executive director of the Academy of American Poets.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             478 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 16, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Diversity on Parade At a Rally for Peace

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 232 words


To the Editor:

The experience of my first antiwar rally was fresh in mind while I read your
article on the call-up of New Jersey's National Guard (Feb. 2).

The article quotes Capt. Jim Cole, who joined after the Sept. 11 attacks, as
saying: "Knowing I had the ability to make a contribution, I could not just sit
back and do nothing." Thanks to my upbringing as the son of political science
and anthropology professors, and thanks to the diverse student body at Franklin
High School in Somerset, where I am a freshman, I also made a contribution, by
attending the rally in Washington on Jan. 18.

My father's stories about the Vietnam antiwar movement encouraged me to express
my views on issues. At the rally, I observed parallels between my multiethnic
classmates at school and the diverse protesters: African-Americans, Palestinians
and Americans of European extraction; children in strollers and middle-aged
parents; Mothers for Peace and Babies Against War; organized-labor leaders and
holders of hand-lettered signs. Speakers ranged from Jessica Lange to Jesse
Jackson.

I was enchanted by the way organizers from Act Now to Stop the War and End
Racism (Answer) blended so many diverse citizens into a harmony of beliefs,
contrary to the off-key war drums of the Bush administration, thus inspiring
protestors returning to their own communities to work for peace.

MAXWELL C. POLLOCK
Princeton

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             479 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Messages From the Protests

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 67 words


To the Editor:

The worldwide protests (front page, Feb. 16) are amazing in their ultimate show
of support for a dictator's obstructionism.

Imagine if such public sentiment could be engaged instead to make a safer world,
one in which tyrants were removed and biological and other weapons destroyed in
accordance with the United Nations' so-called resolutions.

ERIC GALANT
Rockland, Me., Feb. 16, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             480 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antiwar Protesters Release Video of Police

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The organizers of last Saturday's demonstration against war in
Iraq released an edited videotape yesterday that they said bolstered their
complaints about the Police Department's handling of the rally. The seven-minute
tape showed officers forcing protesters back with metal barricades, using pepper
spray and riding horses in crowds. In response, Michael P. O'Looney, chief
spokesman for the Police Department, said, "Force was used by the police as a
last resort." Page B3. (Independent Media Center)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             481 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesters Say City Police Used Rough Tactics at Rally

BYLINE:   By SHAILA K. DEWAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 763 words


After every protest in New York City, it seems, there are protests.

Yesterday was no exception. At a news conference, the organizers of Saturday's
demonstration against war with Iraq showed a videotape of the police using
pepper spray on penned-in people, backing horses into crowds, going after
demonstrators with their nightsticks and forcing people back with metal
barricades. "That makes you feel good, doesn't it?" one officer could be heard
saying about the pepper spray.

The police were quick to point out that the seven-minute video was edited. It
was impossible to tell whether the officers had been provoked, although the tape
did show people surging against barricades and in some cases trying to lift them
out of the way.

The tape, which was produced by the Independent Media Center, a loose
international collective that says it provides "noncorporate coverage" and
"passionate tellings of truth," was edited down from 40 hours of mostly amateur
video that was turned over to the center.

In one scene an officer catches up to a man who is walking, appears to hit him
with a nightstick, and the man falls. When others move toward the fallen man,
they are met with pepper spray in the face.

"This is some of the most brutal stuff that we have," said Justin Lipson, who
edited the tape.

Leslie Cagan, the co-chairwoman of United for Peace and Justice, the umbrella
group that coordinated the New York protest and dozens of others around the
globe, called for the resignation of Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly.

City Councilman Bill Perkins, the chairman of the Council's government
operations committee, speaking at the news conference at the Midtown
headquarters of United for Peace and Justice, said he would hold hearings on the
handling of the rally.

Ms. Cagan said she believed an order had come from "higher up" to make things
difficult for the protesters, beginning with city's denial of a permit to march.

The Police Department and the mayor cited the low number of injuries and arrests
for an event this size. The police estimated the attendance at 100,000, but
organizers said the rally drew half a million, including those who they said
were prevented from reaching the rally site near the United Nations.

The police, who spent $5 million on overtime that day, revised the number of
arrests and summons downward to 274, from 292, counting 49 people arrested hours
after the rally near 39th Street and Fifth Avenue.

A member of the Police Department's Civilian Complaint Review Board said that
roughly 30 complaints of police misconduct had been filed by yesterday
afternoon, including allegations of protesters being "corralled," punched,
pushed to the ground and trampled by police horses.

"Not everybody was happy about the way the police controlled the crowds," Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg said at a news conference in Brooklyn, before the
protesters showed the video at their news conference. "But they kept this city
safe, and people that wanted to protest certainly had the ability to do so.
Maybe not as much as they'd like, but given that this is a dangerous world, I
thought the Police Department did an excellent job at balancing the rights of
people to say what they want to say with the needs of all of us, and of them, to
provide security for everybody."

Advertisements for the event said it would be at 49th Street and First Avenue,
but the stage was actually at 51st Street, and the crowd extended for more than
20 blocks northward.

As the blocks near the stage filled, the police barricaded side streets and told
people on Second and Third Avenues to move north. Some reported that they were
ultimately sent back south or directed to take routes that were blocked off or
led away from the rally.

Such confusion increased tensions on both sides and contributed to the notion
that the police were purposefully keeping people from the rally, a charge the
police denied.

Michael P. O'Looney, the chief spokesman for the Police Department, issued a
written statement. "Force was used by the police as a last resort," it read.
"Some of the frustration over access to the protest area may have been avoided
had the organizers done a better job of communicating that they moved the
stage," he said.

The video showed some clashes in Second and Third Avenues. "There were horses
that were turned around and backed into crowds, there were horses that were
taken onto the sidewalk," said Rebekah Wolf, with the People's Law Collective,
who was one of the legal observers monitoring arrests. "There was not a single
arrest that I saw that was not violent."


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2003



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about
demonstrators' accusations of police misconduct at the antiwar rally last
weekend referred incorrectly to the Civilian Complaint Review Board, which
received about 30 complaints arising from the rally. Since 1993, it has been an
independent agency; it is not part of the Police Department.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             482 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 5, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antiwar Ralliers Seek a Permit, This Time Marching, March 22

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 415 words


The organizers of the antiwar rally that drew a huge crowd in Manhattan on Feb.
15 are trying again to get permission from the city to march through the
streets, rather than simply stand and listen to speakers.

The organizers, United for Peace and Justice, applied yesterday for a police
permit to march down Fifth Avenue from 59th Street to Washington Square Park on
March 22.

The city refused to allow the group to march past the United Nations on Feb. 15,
citing security risks. When the group challenged that decision in court, a
federal judge ruled that the city had not violated demonstrators' First
Amendment rights by authorizing only a stationary rally on First Avenue.

The rally drew thousands of people -- 100,000 by the Police Department's
reckoning, 500,000 by the organizers' estimate. But many would-be demonstrators
said they were unable to reach the rally through police barricades, and others
complained that they were mistreated by the police, who in turn said there were
relatively few injuries or arrests.

Leslie Cagan, a founder of United for Peace, said yesterday that she was
optimistic that city officials "realize that they made a very big mistake last
time." While the group is determined to march in Midtown, she said, it will work
with the police on the exact route.

But if the city denies a march permit altogether, "you know litigation is not
out of the question," said Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York
Civil Liberties Union, which represented the group in its previous court
challenge.

Spokesmen for both the Police Department and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the
police would consider the request for a permit.

"The city does not have a policy banning marches, and the Police Department will
review the request and make a decision based on the merits," said Edward Skyler,
the mayor's press secretary.

The review will consider security, scheduling conflicts and feasibility, said
Capt. James Klein, a spokesman for the Police Department.

Demonstrators have a permit from the Parks Department to hold a vigil this
evening in Washington Square Park, said the Rev. Peter Laarman, a founder of the
New York City Forum of Concerned Religious Leaders, which is a sponsor of the
vigil.

But protesters have not sought a permit for a march to the vigil from outside
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's office on Third Avenue near 48th Street.
Because the march will take place on sidewalks, not in the streets, a permit is
not needed, Ms. Cagan said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             483 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE OPPOSITION;
With Passion and a Dash of Pink, Women Gather to Protest War

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8


Several thousand protesters, most of them women, rallied near the White House
today to protest the Bush administration's policy on Iraq. About 25 people were
arrested, the authorities and the demonstration's organizers said.

The protesters, many wearing pink as a symbol of opposition among women to a
war, carried placards and sang and chanted slogans in a low-key demonstration
organized by a group called Code Pink, a play on the national color-coded
security alert system.

Most of the protesters listened to speeches at a rally some distance from the
White House, with relatively few making the march to President Bush's residence.
Among the protesters were family members of victims from the Sept. 11 attacks,
along with some relatives of military members who have gone overseas in
preparation for a possible war.

The police did not immediately name those who were arrested. Andrea Buffa, an
organizer of the march, said that among those arrested were several well-known
writers, including Alice Walker, Terry Tempest Williams, Maxine Hong Kingston
and Susan Griffin, as well as Amy Goodman, a host on Pacifica Radio.

The protest was linked to International Women's Day, an annual commemoration of
women's rights, and was one of many events held today around the nation and
world to denounce the prospect of a war in Iraq.

As they approached the White House, the demonstrators were heckled by
counterdemonstrators, including some who supported the administration's policy
of ousting the government of Saddam Hussein and others there to voice opposition
to abortion.

The arrests took place on the stretch of Pennsylvania Avenue that runs in front
of the White House, which has been closed to traffic for several years and is a
common venue for protests.

The United States Park Police, which controls permits for protests in the park
across the street from the White House, said that those arrested had violated
restrictions on using the sidewalk, and that they were likely to be released
quickly.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers removed a protester, Brianna Binkerd-Dale, by
the White House yesterday. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             484 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Get Out of the Way

BYLINE:  By Thomas H. B. Ewald;  Thomas H. B. Ewald, a money manager in New
York, was deputy head of international lending at Al Ahli, a bank in Kuwait
City.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 581 words


Calling themselves "human shields," groups of Westerners, including some
Americans, are volunteering to encamp at potential bombing targets throughout
Iraq in what they say is an effort to protect the people of Iraq if there is a
war. What they're really doing is putting themselves and others in danger for a
dubious cause.

During the Persian Gulf war, I too was a human shield -- though not by choice. I
was held hostage by the Iraqi secret police at a possible military target near
Baghdad, and the point wasn't to protect Iraqis, but the Iraqi war machine.

So I find it difficult to understand why people would volunteer to put
themselves in such a position. Instead of stopping the war, they're running the
risk of prolonging it and the agony of the people living under Saddam Hussein,
as well as increasing the risk to the allied armed forces.

Thirteen years ago, on July 31, 1990, I arrived in Kuwait to work for a bank;
two days later, the country was invaded by Saddam Hussein. Three weeks later,
the Iraqi government announced that all Americans and Britons trapped in Kuwait
were to be rounded up and taken to Baghdad. Those who failed to report would be
hunted down by special Republican Guard units. Those who were caught harboring
fugitives were to be immediately executed along with all members of their
household.

I had been in Kuwait so briefly that I had no friends in the city, yet within an
hour of the Iraqi announcement, the phone in my hotel room rang three times: one
call came from a Kuwaiti, one from an Egyptian, and one from a
Lebanese-American, each one a work acquaintance offering his home as a haven.

For the next two weeks I moved from house to house in an effort to remain out of
the hands of Saddam Hussein's agents. Eventually, I was captured and threatened
with execution unless I revealed where the other Americans were hiding and who
had been protecting me. I insisted I didn't know and was was ultimately taken to
a factory outside Baghdad, where I was used as a human shield.

There, because of the kindness of the Iraqis who were in charge of me, I was
well treated and ultimately released. But my experience was far better than
most. I know of one American who was shot by the Iraqis as he tried to escape;
another, a colleague, died in captivity. Several others I knew nearly died of
malnutrition and disease, and to this day suffer the effects of their
imprisonment.

From the moment of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 until my release a month
and a half later, I saw what it was like to live under Saddam Hussein's rule. It
was terrible. When a society suffers a loss of civil order, which is what
happens in any invasion, little is stable, and the weak are especially
vulnerable. But what the Iraqi Army and secret police did was more than violent;
it was cruel. On the second day of the invasion, I saw a woman minutes after she
had been raped by a member of the Republican Guard. I saw stores and homes
robbed. I saw Iraqi tanks shooting at civilians fleeing the country in a small
motorboat, and anti-aircraft cannons firing into a residential neighborhood.

In all of these acts of violence, there was one malevolent constant: those who
opposed Saddam Hussein could expect torture and execution. Still, I was aided by
numerous Arabs who were willing to risk their lives. I am deeply grateful to
them. "Human shields" say they are risking their lives to help the people of
Iraq -- but their actions can accomplish only the opposite.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Anthony Russo)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             485 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SOAPBOX;
Beyond Bergen County

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE CONTILLO;  Christine Contillo lives in Haworth.

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 786 words


I GREW UP in a rural town, and one of my goals was to live where there were no
chickens in the yard. I consider myself lucky to have landed in Bergen County,
where the average home price is now over $350,000. My three teenage children do
not consider themselves nearly as lucky. They reserve that description for their
friends who drive Mercedes-Benzes and vacation in remote jungle resorts in
Central America. They think that the 1987 Volvo in our yard is a modern version
of their mother's chicks. So my purpose becomes not that much different from my
mother's 50 years ago -- to raise children who value and use the gifts they have
been given and to leave the world a better place.

To this end, I took my 14-year-old son, Ben, to the peace rally on Feb. 15 in
New York City. He had been foolish enough to admit that he had nothing else
planned for the day, and it was an excellent opportunity to learn about the real
world on many different levels, I thought. He would see people practicing their
right to free speech and assembly; he would see democracy in action. He would
realize that he lives in an insular environment but that we need to consider our
actions worldwide. He would spend a day away from the television and might even
be moved to enter politics and try to change the world himself. Even as my
husband tried to point out that it might be dangerous, that the terrorist alert
had been elevated, I was not discouraged.

I am not soft on terrorism. But as a practicing Catholic, I have been praying
for peace since the 1950's. The current international scene seems to be
spiraling down into the very catastrophic events that I have been trying to
prevent since childhood in my own way. Even when none of my friends would or
could go to the rally with me, I felt that my voice needed to be heard, and I
think that my commitment was what inspired my son to (grudgingly) agree to go
with me.

Fourteen is the perfect age to begin to take the world to heart. And the lessons
he learned will last forever, I think, in a way that I could never have taught
better:

People united with a common purpose will have more in common with one another
than you might expect and will work to minimize their differences. At the rally
we saw people of every race and religious background working together, carrying
flags, speaking different languages but sharing food, following directions and
generally being happy to be allowed to witness to their belief in peace. We
talked to gays, Buddhists, union workers, the old, the young, people from New
York, people from far away, serious people, light-hearted fun-loving people, and
all through our conversations wound the common theme that we did not believe in
first-strike aggression against Iraq.

People in power do not always have your best interest at heart. Although a
federal judge seemed to think that allowing a march would be too dangerous, in
the end the police were unable to deal with the unexpectedly large crowd, which
swelled into the streets, stopped traffic and became dangerous just for its
sheer size. To rally participants, a march would have afforded more of a
contribution than standing around in the cold, more of an opportunity to show
the size of their effort and share their opinions with others.

Remember what you see or hear. We were home in time to be dismayed that the Fox
network covered only the limited amount of violence at the rally. Although we
had witnessed nothing but cooperation in our area, violence sells on television.
The police commissioner estimated the crowd at 100,000, but this was probably
the number of people allowed actually to get to the rally. The organizers
estimated that up to 400,000 were kept away by police barriers. My son will now
watch television coverage with a more practiced eye.

Good manners go a long way. Bergdorf Goodman does not allow customers to bring
in signs, but while we had coffee in the Fifth Floor Cafe the concierge
graciously agreed to hold our posters near the door.

Valuable as these lessons were, and thrilled as I was to be part of a worldwide
demonstration, my day would have been perfect if I could believe that the Bush
administration was counting up similar lessons. Just as we all want our prayers
to be heard, we want to believe that in our democracy, the will of all the
people is considered, not just the powerful or the rich.

Ben came home with a new view of his country and its future. He wore a big smile
and enthusiastically told the rest of our family what he hadseen in our
excursion into life beyond our neighborhood. Just as I did, he will move out,
get an education and move on. And I hope that just as I did, he will now hope
that whatever he does will make a difference.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             486 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: PROTESTS;
Global Rallies Against War, and Some for Hussein

BYLINE:  By EMMA DALY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: MADRID, March 15


Angered at their government's unwavering support for United States policy on
Iraq, Spaniards took to the streets here today, one of hundreds of antiwar
demonstrations around the world.

For the second time in a month, crowds of demonstrators jammed the center of
Madrid, waving antiwar placards and chanting insults against President Bush and
one of his strongest allies, Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain.

"We are marching against the law of the jungle that the United States and its
acolytes old and new want to impose on the world," Jose Saramago, the Portuguese
writer and Nobel laureate, told the crowd, estimated by news organizations at
about half a million, gathered in Madrid's Puerta del Sol. Another demonstration
was held in Barcelona, where the police said 300,000 people demonstrated, some
of them forming a three-mile human chain.

The events were part of a largely coordinated worldwide effort to rally support
against the war.

While the Spanish demonstrations drew large crowds, some others were more
sparsely attended. In Seoul, South Korea, 3,000 protesters held towering candles
as they paraded through the capital. About 15,000 rallied in Athens, accompanied
by a giant reproduction of "Guernica," Picasso's antiwar painting. And in
Moscow, 1,000 people demonstrated in front of the American Embassy.

In London, where an estimated one million people marched against the war in
January, there were protests in several residential neighborhoods and a
scheduled concert tonight for 2,000 people aimed at raising money for the Stop
the War coalition.

Muslims in London organized walk-bys at the embassies of Saudi Arabia, Turkey,
Syria, Egypt, Qatar and Pakistan, countries they accuse of collaborating with
the United States. "The governments of the Muslim world have the power to stop
this war by disallowing America and its allies from using their land, airspace,
waterways and logistics to perpetrate it," said one of the organizers, Dr. Imran
Waheed.

In Montreal, about 250,000 people marched through the streets shouting antiwar
slogans, in the largest of 30 demonstrations in Canada.

About 100,000 people demonstrated in Berlin, according to police estimates,
while 50,000 demonstrators gathered in the Place de la Nation in Paris.

More than 5,000 people marched in Marseille, France's second largest city.

In central Tokyo, an estimated 10,000 people filed through downtown streets to
applause from passers-by. According to polls, more than 80 percent of the
Japanese people oppose an attack on Iraq, but the government has supported the
United States demand that Baghdad disarm or face military action.

In Madrid, few demonstrators saw much hope of persuading Mr. Aznar to change
course. "Hope is the last thing to go," said Ernesto Cano, a student attending
with his parents and family friends. "If we keep making an effort there is still
a possibility to avoid war."

But Maria Conde, marching with her three labrador dogs, was pessimistic. "I
don't think this will change anything," she said.

In the Middle East, some of the demonstrations were in support of Saddam
Hussein. In Khan Yunis, in the Gaza Strip, for example, 10 men in black hoods,
wearing mock versions of the explosives belts of suicide bombers, led a march in
support of the Iraqi leader.

In Cairo, several hundred people, surrounded by 1,500 police officers, protested
outside the University of Cairo chanting, "With our blood, with our soul, we
will defend Baghdad."

In Nicosia, 2,000 people marched on the American Embassy demanding "no more
blood for oil." They also condemned the presence on the island of the largest
Royal Air Force base outside Britain, at Akiroti, which is scheduled to play a
support and logistics role in any attack on Iraq.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             487 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 16, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antiwar Group Gets a Permit For a March

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 345 words


The city has issued a permit to a group of antiwar demonstrators for a march in
Manhattan on Saturday, and the Police Department has granted the group's request
that there be no barricades at the start of the planned march route, the event's
organizers said yesterday.

The city had agreed in principle to a march, but had not issued an official
permit. The Police Department had proposed sealing off the side streets around
the gathering area near 42nd Street with barricades. After a meeting on Friday,
the department agreed to drop that requirement, said Bill Dobbs, a spokesman for
United for Peace and Justice, the group that is organizing the march.

The city had refused to allow the protesters to march past the United Nations
complex during an antiwar rally on Feb. 15, citing security concerns. Lawyers
for United for Peace and Justice challenged that decision unsuccessfully in
court, and a stationary rally was held instead. Some protesters later said that
their First Amendment rights were denied because police officers sealed off some
blocks leading to the rally and there were demonstrators who never made it to
the event, on First Avenue.

For the march on Saturday, participants will gather on Broadway between 35th and
42nd Streets. The march will begin at noon, and latecomers may join the march at
its northern end. The route will run south on Broadway and along the east side
of Union Square before ending at Washington Square Park, the police said.

The organizers have agreed to post two volunteers on each corner of the
formation area between 35th and 42nd Streets, and to assign at least 100
volunteers, with bullhorns, to help keep order during the march itself, the
police said. The organizers will be responsible for helping with crowd control
and for directing protesters to adjoining blocks when streets in the formation
area are filled, the police said.

"This is a big reversal," Mr. Dobbs said of the city's decision to grant the
permit. "We hope the police are sincere in recognizing and assisting the
constitutional rights of protesters."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             488 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: Briefly Noted;
PROTESTERS BLOCKADE AUSTRALIAN LEADER

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 120 words


Greenpeace activists dressed as United Nations soldiers blockaded the official
residence of the Australian prime minister to protest his decision to join in an
American-led attack on Iraq. Wearing peacekeeper-style blue berets, around a
dozen antiwar campaigners from the environmental pressure group chained
themselves under four-wheel-drive vehicles blocking the entrances to Prime
Minister John Howard's home. "Greenpeace has placed the prime minister under
symbolic house arrest to convey the message to the Australian public that the
activities of pre-emptively striking Iraq are immoral, illegal and the
Australian public doesn't want it," a Greenpeace campaigner, Shane Rattenbury,
said in the capital, Canberra.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             489 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE GULF;
A Sense of Gloom Is Felt Within the Arab World

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, March 18


Inside the Youth of Iraq restaurant, which stands beside the sacred shrine of
Muhammad's granddaughter Zeinab and not far from the main taxi stand for
Baghdad, the exclusively Iraqi patrons shoveled hummus and kebab into their
mouths today without taking their eyes off the television blaring headlines from
one corner.

"All we can hope for is the removal of Saddam Hussein from power, whether the
devil does it or the Americans," said a young Iraqi professional, visibly edgy
over the decision he faces -- whether to return to Baghdad and family before war
erupts. "After that, nobody knows."

Not far away barkers crying, "Baghdad, one seat for Baghdad," were evidently
finding no rush to fill seats in the white-and-orange GMC Suburbans making the
12-hour drive to the Iraqi capital.

President Bush's call to arms met with similar diffidence across the region,
with governments from Damascus to Cairo to Riyadh moving with unusual speed to
distance themselves from any American attack on Iraq. Inevitably, a sense of
gloom descended as both Arab governments and their peoples faced the fact that
they had no way to influence events.

"We strongly reject any blow to Iraq's unity, independence and its security and
the country's military occupation," Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia said
in an address uncommonly broadcast on state television. The government had
clearly informed Washington of its stance, he added.

"The kingdom will not participate in any way in the war on brotherly Iraq, and
our armed forces will under no circumstances enter a foot of Iraqi territory,"
said the prince, the country's de facto ruler, as the royal family's position
aligned with the popular mood.

The Syrian foreign ministry issued a statement blasting the United States for
flaunting international law with its go-it-alone war.

The statement said that Syria believed that it remained "possible to find a
peaceful solution to disarm Iraq," ignoring the fact that all arms inspectors
have left, and said that they should be given more time since they were
achieving progress through cooperation with Baghdad.

In Cairo, Egypt's foreign minister, Ahmed Maher, also held out hope for an
11th-hour diplomatic solution, although no specifics were mentioned.

"We were and we are still searching for a peaceful solution to the Iraqi crisis
to avert the risks of war, although matters have become more dangerous now," he
told reporters. "The situation is moving in the wrong direction, but this does
not mean we should stop trying."

The Arab Union of Physicians, whose Egyptian branch is dominated by the Muslim
Brotherhood, published a call to all Arabs to fight or at least to pray for
Iraq.

"Baghdad Will Not Fall," read the main headline in their advertisement in Al
Ahram, Egypt's semiofficial daily.

A few volunteers showed up at the Iraqi embassy in Cairo to offer their
services.

"I know war and I know no one is a victor," said Muhammad Abbas Mahmoud, 54, a
retired brigadier general who fought in the 1973 Arab-Israeli war. His right arm
hung limp from a stroke, but he said his anger would give him strength, just as
it fuels his pain.

"War -- it's all damage," he said, tears welling up as he described how he
stayed out of the house all day to avoid hearing the news. "I know the Iraqis
will suffer. Maybe Saddam Hussein is wrong. I am not fighting for Saddam
Hussein. I fight for Iraq."

Given that Egypt has been denying its citizens the travel documents needed to go
to Iraq, there was little chance he would make it.

Anger was not limited to Egypt. In Yemen a gunman killed three oil workers -- an
American, a Canadian and a Yemeni, before shooting himself to death.

Not all countries focused their anger on the United States. In the United Arab
Emirates, which floated a proposal earlier this month that Mr. Hussein leave
Iraq, a newspaper, Al Ittihad, wrote: "Does the Iraqi leadership want to win the
respect of the whole world? Does it want to make its mark on history? It has
only three options: exile, exile and exile."

No one really believed that Mr. Hussein would voluntarily relinquish the post he
has held for 23 years.

In Jordan, Emad Hajjaj, the country's leading political cartoonist, presided
over a gallery show of his work that included a giant canvas depicting the
Marlboro man lassoing the statue of an Assyrian winged lion, among the most
famous symbols of ancient Iraq.

"The man is acting like a cowboy," Mr. Hajjaj said in reference to Mr. Bush's
speech.

"People are frustrated, they are angry, they feel as if everything is going
wrong around them and there is nothing they can do," he said. "Everyone thinks
what the United States is doing in Iraq is a major wrong, but they have no
influence so they feel only despair."

Even Iraqi exile groups, whose long-awaited moment to gain some form of
political power may be at hand, are hesitant to endorse a war that many fear
could lead to civilian carnage either during an attack or in its wake.

"Saddam Hussein is responsible for all the tragedies in Iraq, so his removal in
any manner is a gain for the Iraqi people," said Salman Yousef Fahd, a
54-year-old former factory worker who is the Damascus representative of the
Iraqi Communist Party.

His office decor includes a pewter-colored bust of Lenin and two portraits of
executed party leaders. "But we would prefer it happen in some other way than
war," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators in Cairo yesterday, reacting to the ultimatum to
Saddam Hussein, carried the Iraqi flag and a poster with a map of Iraq and a
slogan, in Arabic: "No for a strike on Iraq, and No for Zionist massacres."
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             490 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 21, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: WORLD REACTION;
Wave of Protests, From Europe to New York

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

DATELINE: PARIS, March 20


Leaders and protesters around the world today condemned the start of war in
Iraq, with President Jacques Chirac of France warning that it "will be fraught
with consequences for the future."

In Russia, President Vladimir V. Putin called for an immediate halt to the
American-led assault, saying, "This military action cannot be justified in any
way."

Regardless of whether their governments supported or opposed the war, hundreds
of thousands massed at protests across Germany, France, Spain, Italy and
Britain. In Berlin, an estimated 40,000 demonstrators streamed past the United
States Embassy and through the Brandenburg Gate, waving banners that read, "Stop
the Bush Fire" and "George W. Hitler."

In the United States, the antiwar demonstrations were generally smaller, but
thousands descended on military bases or blocked roads and bridges to voice
their opposition. Chanting "Peace Now," some 5,000 people demonstrated in Times
Square in New York.

The wave of global protest began even as the first missiles were hitting
Baghdad, with tens of thousands in Melbourne, Australia's second city, bringing
traffic to a standstill. In the Middle East, demonstrations were scattered -- a
crowd of only 1,000 in Cairo, for instance -- but more vociferous protests were
expected on Friday, the day of Muslim worship.

In France, the American Embassy and consulate buildings, just off the Place de
la Concorde in Paris, were heavily guarded as tens of thousands of demonstrators
assembled, chanting antiwar slogans. The National Assembly briefly suspended its
session in symbolic protest.

In Madrid, about 40,000 people packed the Puerta del Sol tonight in protest at
the Spanish government's support for President Bush. Fliers that called for a
boycott of American consumer goods passed through the crowd.

"At least we can show the world that our government does not represent us," said
Javier Velazquez, an economics professor. "It is important to have a European
response to a country that just does anything it wants, which is the United
States."

American flags were burned outside the embassy in Athens, where an estimated
80,000 demonstrators, mainly students and labor activists, marched peacefully,
chanting anti-American slogans.

Sentiment ran generally high against the United States. Fans in Montreal booed
loudly tonight when "The Star-Spangled Banner" was sung before the Canadiens'
game against the New York Islanders.

Appearing on national television this morning, Mr. Chirac reiterated France's
opposition to the war and said he regretted it was "initiated without United
Nations backing."

While emphasizing that France was supported by many other nations, he added an
appeal for the world and especially Europe toreunite in pursuit of common goals.

"Tomorrow, we shall have to meet again, with our allies, with the whole
international community, to take up together the challenges awaiting us," he
said. "Europe must realize the need to express its own vision of world problems
and support this vision with a credible common defense."

Mr. Chirac spoke before attending a previously scheduled summit meeting of the
leaders from the 15 European Union nations in Brussels, where an attempt was
made to paper over the continent's deep rifts with a common statement on how
best to secure peace after the war in Iraq.

Also attending the summit meeting was Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Mr.
Bush's staunchest ally. Before leaving for Brussels, Mr. Blair recorded a
five-minute speech that was broadcast in Britain at 10 p.m., formally
acknowledging that British troops are now at war.

"I know this course of action has produced deep divisions of opinion in our
country," said Mr. Blair, who has faced strong popular protest and a revolt in
his Labor Party. "But this new world faces a new threat: of disorder and chaos
born either of brutal states like Iraq, armed with weapons of mass destruction,
or of extreme terrorist groups. Both hate our way of life, our freedom, our
democracy."

Spain's prime minister, Jose Maria Aznar, who has also backed Mr. Bush, sent
only a hospital ship and 900 personnel to the Persian Gulf. He told his country:
"We have assumed our responsibilities. There were more comfortable options, but
we don't want to pass on to the future risks that we should confront in the
present."

Yet here and there, even among leaders critical of the war, a sense of
resignation -- and a desire to begin healing divisions -- were evident.

In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder said on television that "the wrong
decision was taken." Yet he added, "The differences over the war are clear
differences of opinion among governments, not deep-seated differences between
friendly peoples."

The New China news agency reported that the former Chinese foreign minister,
Tang Jiaxuan, in a telephone call with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell,
appealed for an end to military operations, "so that the Iraq issue can be
returned to the current track of a political solution."

In Russia, Mr. Putin called the war a "big political mistake."

Mr. Putin, a staunch defender of Russia's sovereignty over the rebel region of
Chechnya, said, "If we allow international law to be replaced by the law of the
first, in which the strong is always right, and has the right to do anything,
then one of the most basic principles of international law will come into
question: the inviolability of state sovereignty."

Yet this evening, Russia's foreign minister, Igor S. Ivanov, told reporters that
Russia and America "remain partners, not opponents, despite the war in Iraq."

In Canada, Prime Minister Jean Chretien sought to smooth relations with
Washington, saying, "We must do nothing to comfort Saddam Hussein."

"We hope it will be brief, with a minimum of casualties on both sides," Mr.
Chretien said of the war.

In the Pacific, Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, all close allies of the
United States, expressed support.

Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, despite widespread opposition to the
war in Japan, said Baghdad had "not acted sincerely."

The Philippine president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, said her country was "part of
the coalition of the willing."

But Malaysia and Indonesia, Muslim nations, condemned the war.

Severe condemnation of the war came from the papacy and theleaders of other
religions.

In Rome, the papal spokesman, Joaquin Navarro-Valls, said Pope John Paul II was
"deeply pained." In a statement, he deplored the fact that Baghdad "did not
accept the resolutions of the United Nations and the appeal by the pope himself,
which asked for the country to disarm." But he also criticized the rupture of
negotiations toward peaceful disarmament.

The papal displeasure was echoed in denunciations of the war from leaders of
Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant and Muslim groups.

In South America, official reaction of the six governments making up the
Mercosur group, led by Brazil, was uniformly negative. President Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva of Brazil condemned the American position as an act of "disrespect
to the United Nations and the rest of the world."

"All of us want for Iraq not to have atomic weapons or weapons of mass
destruction," he said, "but that does not give the United States the right to
decide by itself what is good and what is bad for the world."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: JACKSON, MISS. -- Annie and Mitchell Myers joined 2,000 people
at a rally in support of the troops. (Associated Press); SAN FRANCISCO -- About
1,000 were arrested in protests at the epicenter of the United States antiwar
movement. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); NEW YORK -- Protesters closed
down Times Square yesterday evening; 21 people were arrested. (James Estrin/The
New York Times); ROME -- Taking up candles last night, thousands of Romans
joined a protest march against the attack on Iraq. (Agence France-Presse)(pg.
B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             491 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Here on the Home Front: Flags and Protests

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 178 words


To the Editor:

Re "Across the Nation, Protesters Carry Out a Plan to 'Stop Business as Usual' "
(news article, March 21):

Like many Americans, I find myself ambivalent about the continuing antiwar
protests. I have marched in the previous antiwar rallies, and still believe that
this war could have been prevented had we exhibited an iota of diplomatic will.

That said, here we are. Pragmatists say it is time to show support for our
troops, and get through this mess as quickly and with the least "collateral
damage" as possible.

But as some of us mute our anger against the war, I believe that the Bush
administration will deliberately misinterpret our silence as approval for his
arrogant and dangerous tactics. Even if we manage to exit Iraq under the best
possible circumstances, the result will be an emboldened Bush administration
that increasingly relies on pre-emption and unilateralism. For that reason,
despite my ambivalence, I will continue to speak out against the war, but more
important, against President Bush.

COLLEEN BAILEY
San Francisco, March 21, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             492 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Here on the Home Front: Flags and Protests

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 121 words


To the Editor:

While I personally support the objective of removing Saddam Hussein from power,
and without reservation support the men and women of our military, I equally
support the right of Americans to take to the street to protest the actions of
this government ("Across the Nation, Protesters Carry Out a Plan to 'Stop
Business as Usual,' " news article, March 21).

I have but one plea to those who protest. Keep it peaceful. We need our first
responders to be laserfocused on protecting us from the threat we now live with.
A suggestion to those who protest: mount a vast voter registration effort,
because we now know what happens when people stay home on Election Day.

LYDIA WHITEFIELD
Cranford, N.J., March 21, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             494 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 26, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Third-Party Candidates

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 110 words


To the Editor:

In David Callahan's essay about peace rallies (Op-Ed, March 22), his favorable
mention of third-party candidates invites the bitter reflection that if there
had been no third-party candidate in the last presidential election, there would
be no need for peace rallies today.

Instead of an "administration with a teenager's twitchy metabolism and
self-centered view of the world" -- as Bill Keller's column characterizes it on
the same Op-Ed page -- we would be governed by an administration led by a
responsible grown-up.

To protest by marching is admirable; to protest by throwing away one's vote is
idiotic.

JANET MALCOLM
New York, March 25, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             495 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antiwar Protests Spread Across State

BYLINE:  By JANE GORDON

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1120 words


CAROL LOEB SCHWARZ, 83, head to toe in black, tote bag filled with fliers,
hurried out the door of her Stamford home last Tuesday for her regular gig at
the post office on Greenwich Avenue in Greenwich. Through rain, sleet, snow and
the cold of this year's bitter winter, she has stood at the post office from
noon to 1 each Tuesday since September, "vigiling," she called it, against a war
in Iraq. She and a few dozen protesters hold out signs to passing cars
encouraging drivers to "Honk for Peace."

"The cacophony has been enormous," she said. "Sometimes it's so loud we're
worried the police will come."

The noise crescendoed recently as thousands of Connecticut residents united in
acts of civil disobedience, in protests and parades, in roadside vigils and in
candlelight church services to protest the war in Iraq. As Ms. Schwarz headed
out to her vigil on Tuesday, protesters in New Haven were preparing for a
late-afternoon procession the same day through the city's streets, armed with
placards, aided by a drumbeat and shouting for peace. The group typically holds
a peace vigil twice a day in front of the courthouse. But last week many people
protesting the war were taking to the streets, so the Connecticut Peace
Coalition/New Haven, did, too.

"We know this is an outrageous and illegal war," said Marge Van Cleef, a member
of the New Haven group who teaches English composition at Housatonic Valley
Community College. "More and more information is coming out about the real
reasons for this war - selling weapons, picking certain companies to reconstruct
Iraq. We put out leaflets everyday bringing up these issues."

Protesters also gathered in Hartford early last month, carrying signs reading
"Build schools in the U.S., not orphanages in Baghdad." More than 100 blocked
doors to the William R. Cotter federal building in Hartford, which houses the
offices of the Internal Revenue Service, "because we are opposed to using
taxpayer money to finance a war," said Ms. Van Cleef, who protested at the
Hartford event, too. About half the participants were arrested.

Organizers said the Connecticut Coalition for Peace, a combination of dozens of
Connecticut churches, social service organizations, peace groups and others, had
planned the day's events months in advance. One of the groups involved,
Reclaiming the Prophetic Voice, organized in April 2002 in preparation for the
war. The group encompasses religious leaders, clergy and parishioners from
various faiths.

Allie Perry, a member of the group, is a United Church of Christ minister and a
pastoral counselor at the Milford Pastoral Counseling Center. She was among the
protesters arrested at the federal building in Hartford. Charged with criminal
trespass, disorderly conduct and interfering with a police officer, Ms. Perry
was released last Wednesday with a promise to appear. Calling the action "a
public witness," Ms. Perry was less concerned with her arrest than with future
demonstrations. "We now have to have the conversation if this war continues,"
she said. "What is our witness over the long term?"

Whatever it may be, the Internet has served to make even last-minute gatherings
imminently possible. Many antiwar groups have Web sites and ways to send the
word out instantaneously to members and sympathizers. "We let people know about
actions through the Internet," Ms.Perry said, "and they just show up. The
Internet has been critical in that regard."

Those people who supported Monday's civil action included eight Wesleyan
University students. Ben Somberg, a sophomore, took this semester off to work
against the war and was arrested in the Hartford event, spending his first
evening ever in jail.

"This was for a cause I really believed in," said Mr. Somberg, whose parents
participated in antiwar protests in the 1960's. "I couldn't just go on living my
privileged life while hundreds or Iraqis are dying and U.S. soldiers are dying."

The peace groups have been teaching nonviolent civil disobedience behavior to
volunteers, but Hartford police were taking no chances on March 24: After about
an hour and a half of the protest, they moved in to break up the demonstration,
more conspicuous than usual in riot helmets, Army boots, gloves and elbow and
kneepads. They had just come off a Sunday of protests one day earlier, when
about 1,500 people gathered at the State Capitol building carrying American
flags, antiwar placards and photographs of Iraqi women and children. Members of
the Connecticut Coalition for Peace, including the Connecticut Civil Liberties
Union, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and
several churches spoke to the crowd.

A few days earlier, on March 20, 15 antiwar protesters from the Peace of Mind
Coalition in western Connecticut marched in a mock funeral procession down Main
Street in Danbury, beginning at the Danbury War Memorial. Most of the 15 wore
black, and they carried four black coffins. The procession crossed White Street,
stopping briefly at an armed forces recruiting center. "How many Iraqis must we
kill before feeling safe?" read one sign. The same day, in Willimantic, nine
people were arrested at a protest at a military recruitment center. On March 19,
16 people were arrested for blocking the entrance to the federal building in New
Haven, and on March 18 a group blocked access to the federal courthouse on Main
Street in Hartford, after marching in a mock funeral procession through city
streets. Fourteen people were arrested there.

John Humphries of the American Friends Service Committee, which has been
participating in the protests, said the Connecticut Coalition for Peace was
created in November 2002.

"We formed a loose statewide coalition of groups that worked out contingency
plans if we failed to stop the war," he said. "The agreement was to focus on the
weekend after the war started."

That meant a demonstration on Sunday and another on Monday. Also that day, the
National Colombia Mobilization, which opposes United States policy in Columbia,
showed up for a demonstration at United Technologies, a decision Mr. Humphries
called "serendipity."

Along with civil disobedience and mock funeral processions, dozens of groups in
towns and cities including Stamford, Norwich, Storrs and West Hartford have held
day and evening vigils for peace. They have been met with a mix of thumbs ups
and thumbs down, and although Ms. Schwarz, standing outside the post office in
Greenwich, was fine with that, she struggled with those who dispute her right to
demonstrate for peace.

"We're not unpatriotic, we were born of dissent," she said. "Are they going to
call George Washington unpatriotic, and all those who signed the Declaration of
Independence?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters, above, marching against the war in New Haven last
week. There were also protests in other towns and cities, including Hartford,
left, Litchfield, bottom, Stamford, Norwich and Storrs. (Photographs by Thomas
McDonald for The New York Times and, left, Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             496 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The World;
When a Brand Becomes a Stand-In for a Nation

BYLINE:  By ROB WALKER

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 409 words


FEW corporate brands enjoy the global reach that McDonald's has attained. The
fast food chain has franchises in 118 countries. In "Fast Food Nation" (Houghton
Mifflin, 2001), the author Eric Schlosser cited one marketing study that found
that, around the world, "the Golden Arches are now more widely recognized than
the Christian cross."

In normal times, a company would find this a good thing. But as antiwar protests
all over the planet give vent to raw anti-American sentiment, the ubiquity and
familiarity of McDonald's has made it a widespread target in recent days. In
Quito, Ecuador, protesters burned a Ronald McDonald statue. In Paris,
demonstrators smashed a McDonald's window. South Korean activists calling for an
end to the war sought attention by scaling a McDonald's sign. Other McDonald's
outlets -- in Karachi, in Buenos Aires -- have been ringed with police officers
to stave off trouble.

Some opponents of the war have called for boycotts not just of McDonald's, but
of a hodgepodge of well-known American brands -- from Coca-Cola to American
Express. A Web site (www.consumers-against-war.de) lists a couple of dozen
targets, from usual suspects like Nike and Disney to more surprising names like
Intel and Heinz.

Clearly demonstrators take things a step further when they actually attack a
McDonald's outlet as if it were a de facto corporate viceroy.

But does it make sense to make such a connection?

"These are locally owned and staffed businesses," said Walt Riker, a McDonald's
spokesman in Chicago, meaning that what demonstrators are really doing is
hurting local entrepreneurs. "It may be an American brand, but these are truly
neighborhood restaurants," he said, adding that most of the chain's 30,000
outlets, including more than 1,000 in France, have not experienced any problem.

The fact that protesters are drawn to the arches in their quest to gain
attention is an interesting example of brand power working in reverse. Many
marketing experts contend that "branding" is not really a logical process --
that the most successful brands make an emotional connection with consumers.
This seems to be true of brand backlashes as well. Under happier circumstances,
the McDonald's name and imagery can stand as shorthand for a quick, dependable
American-style meal. Right now it can be seen as standings for something else:
the policies of the United States and its place in the world. These days, that
is an emotional subject.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters climbed a 50-foot McDonald's sign in Seoul, South
Korea, last Wednesday. The same day, in Buenos Aires, protesters lay down to
symbolize Iraqis killed in the war. (Associated Press); Ecuadoreans in Quito
about to burn a Ronald McDonald statue at the American Embassy. (Reuters); In
Manila, Filipinos were urged to boycott McDonald's and other U.S. companies.
(Associated Press); (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             497 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tie a Yellow Ribbon and Watch the Fur Fly in a New Jersey Town

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words


It began as a thimble-size dispute in the tiny South Jersey town of Fieldsboro,
which ordered last week that some ribbons be removed from a sign welcoming
drivers to the borough of 522 people.

But those ribbons, it turns out, were yellow. And the ruling by Mayor Edward
Tyler that they violated a local ordinance banning displays on public property
has thrust little Fieldsboro into the eye of a national, and even international,
maelstrom.

The ban has been chronicled by news organizations from the local talk-radio
station to the British Broadcasting Corporation. The coverage, in turn, has
drawn condemnation worldwide from supporters of America's troops in Iraq, who
believe -- like the mayor's opponents here -- that Mr. Tyler is behaving a bit
like, well, a certain Iraqi dictator.

"He's running his own form of government," said David Johnson, a liquor store
owner, who added that Mr. Tyler could not point to any ordinance banning such
displays.

Whatever the town's policy, yellow ribbons have sprung up in protest, as well as
in patriotism, on the sign and all over Fieldsboro. Surrounding towns,
meanwhile, have pumped up efforts to get their residents to show their ribbons.

"The Fieldsboro mayor should be worrying less about potential lawsuits and doing
more to support our troops overseas," said Mayor Glen Gilmore of Hamilton, which
claims to have started the nation's first on-line yellow ribbon campaign.

The brouhaha began last Thursday, when a municipal maintenance worker delivered
a message to Mr. Johnson's wife, Diane, from the mayor about the yellow ribbons
she had tied to the "Entering the Borough of Fieldsboro" sign on Route 130, a
few yards from the Johnsons' liquor store. "Take down the ribbons," they said
the worker told them, "or I'll do it for you."

Mrs. Johnson is the daughter of a longtime political rival of Mr. Tyler's, but
she says her intentions were purely patriotic. "I thought that since it was a
fairly new sign and it was so pretty, this would welcome people into this town,"
she said.

The mayor, a Democrat who has expressed opposition to the war, said yesterday
that he had acted only in response to residents' asking why Mrs. Johnson was
allowed to put up ribbons while other displays were not permitted on public
property.

"How about if I want to put a pink one or a blue?" he said one caller asked him.
"As a matter of fact," he quoted the caller as saying, "I want permission to put
a Confederate flag right next to that pole."

The mayor said he wanted the ribbons removed because a few years ago the
municipal counsel told officials that private messages posted on public property
violated a town ordinance, although Mr. Tyler could not cite the specific rule.
He discussed it with three of the other five borough council members last week,
he said, and they agreed with him.

Afraid of being fined, Mrs. Johnson took down the ribbons. Then she went to The
Trentonian, a newspaper in the state capital. The next day, the paper ran a
front-page story with the headline, in yellow, "Town Bans Yellow Ribbons," and
the reaction -- from as far away as the battlefields of Iraq -- astonished
everyone.

A farmer in nearby Allentown, N.J., painted a giant yellow ribbon on an American
flag painted on the side of his barn. A disc jockey for 101.5 FM camped out at
the sign almost an entire day, handing out yellow ribbons from the station's
bright yellow van. People adorned the town with them.

Matt Drudge posted the article on his Web site, the Drudge Report, with a link
to The Trentonian. The paper, in turn, got almost 200,000 hits on its Web site
that first day, said the editor, David Warner, and received more than 2,000
letters. "I didn't see a one that was anything but sympathetic to the people
trying to hang the ribbons," he said.

A typical letter read: "I see liberalism (a k a Communism) is alive and well
there. I suggest the good citizens begin recall procedures and remove that
anti-American from his office."

The dispute between the Johnsons, who are Republicans, and the mayor, who has
served off and on for the last 25 years, may hark back to the 1978 election. Mr.
Tyler won at the polls on Election Day, but then his opponent was declared the
winner on the strength of 51 absentee votes. Later, Mr. Tyler accused his
opponent's ally, Frank Hegyi, of tampering with those ballots; a judge agreed
with him, tossing the ballots out and declaring Mr. Tyler the winner. Mr. Hegyi
is Diane Johnson's father.

The Johnsons have organized a candlelight vigil for tonight at the sign to
protest the ban. Mr. Johnson said he has contacted a lawyer about a possible
effort to recall the mayor..

Mr. Tyler said he was surprised about the widespread reaction to his ruling, but
not ready to back down.

"Looking back, I certainly could have done this a little better," he said,
wearing a cap with an American flag on it. "But all in all I really think I do
stand for, and I have to stand for, the law governing the individual use of
public property."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: When the mayor of Fieldsboro, N.J., said the yellow ribbons on
a sign on Route 130 were not allowed, many people were angered, and they put up
more displays in protest. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Diane
Johnson, who set off the battle of the yellow ribbons, says her intentions were
purely patriotic. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. D6) Map of New Jersey
highlighting Fieldsboro: Fieldsboro, population 522, overlooking the Delaware
River. (pg. D6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             498 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Antiwar Marchers Invoke Ideas of King 35 Years After His Death

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 675 words


Playing bluesy funeral dirges, a Dixieland band led about 200 antiwar
demonstrators from Morningside Heights to Bryant Park yesterday on a frigid,
misty, gray Manhattan morning. Marchers carried mock coffins. A woman wore a
black shroud.

While the protest was presented as a funeral procession for the "dead and not
yet dead" in Iraq, its inspiration drew heavily on the life of the Rev. Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr..

It was a particularly strong example of how opponents of the Iraq war have been
invoking King's legacy.

"Thousands and millions of people marching against the war reveals that the
seeds of Martin Luther King and his vision of nonviolence have nourished hearts
around the world," the Rev. Dr. James A. Forbes Jr., senior minister of
Riverside Church, said in an interview before the march.

It began across the street from Riverside Church in front of Grant's Tomb, with
its "Let us have peace" inscription, and ended with speeches in Bryant Park.

The march was part of a weekend of events that organizers have linked to King,
who was assassinated 35 years ago yesterday. There was special resonance because
one year before the day he was killed, on April 4, 1967, King delivered a speech
at Riverside Church that outlined, for the first time, his opposition to the
Vietnam War. He risked the anger of President Lyndon Johnson, and of fellow
civil rights leaders who thought that speaking out against the war undermined
the effort for racial equality. While the speech is not among his most
remembered, scholars say it gave an important lift to the antiwar movement.

"There was definitely a sense among many people that to have King on the other
side of the war debate was a major step," said Clayborne Carson, a history
professor at Stanford University and director of the Martin Luther King Jr.
Papers Project.

These days, religious leaders and peace proponents hail the speech for
connecting opposition to war to the fight for social justice. They also invoke
King's doctrine of nonviolence in the struggle for racial equality.

"The linkages he was making are still extremely timely and important," said the
Rev. James Fitzgerald, an associate minister at Riverside and the protest
organizer. "We are children of King."

The anniversary of his death was an occasion for other antiwar events in King's
name. Readings of the 1967 speech took place at St. Nicholas Park in
Manhattanville, and a march is planned in Harlem today.

Beyond that, King's face has popped up on T-shirts and posters in many recent
protests. The War Resisters League has a portrait of him in its office, and
members hand out tags with his face and a quotation from one of his speeches.

In his speech at Riverside in 1967, Dr. King called the war "an enemy of the
poor" that sapped the nation's ability to fight poverty, "like some demonic,
destructive suction tube." A country that spends more on defense than on social
programs "is approaching spiritual death," he said.

He spoke of the "cruel irony" of young black men and young white men dying
together in Vietnam but unable to sit together in some schools. He said he could
not condemn violence in the civil rights struggle while at the same time failing
to raise his voice against "the greatest purveyor of violence in the world
today: my own government."

"If America's soul becomes totally poisoned, part of the autopsy must read
'Vietnam,' " he said, calling for a "revolution of values."

He urged young men to declare themselves conscientious objectors, and made
suggestions on how to end the war: stopping the bombing of North Vietnam,
declaring a unilateral cease-fire, curtailing the military buildup in the region
and setting a deadline for troop withdrawal.

In closing, King issued a call for human fellowship and an end to hate.

"We still have a choice today: nonviolent coexistence or violent
co-annihilation," he said. "If we make the right choice, we will be able to
speed up the day, all over America and all over the world, when justice will
roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tim Bredl helped carry a mock coffin in an antiwar march
yesterday, 35 years to the day after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was
killed. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             499 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 6, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SOAPBOX;
Levittown Confronts a New War

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH MONDELLO;  Joseph Mondello, who lives in Oyster Bay Cove, is
the chairman of the Nassau County Republican Committee.

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 613 words


AS American troops confront Iraq, there is a growing fear that the conflict will
become cannon fodder for local partisan politics. Already rallies here and
across the nation have become polarized along political lines, with antiwar
protests being characterized as liberal and pro-administration rallies being
called politically conservative.

In truth nothing could be further than the truth.

In a recent rally held in Levittown, which was built to welcome returning World
War II veterans, the point of conflict wasn't over whether one votes on the
Republican or Democratic line. What galvanized the people who attended was
whether we as a community, and a nation, would stand beside our sons and
daughters or would we abandon them because we might take issue with the
President's Iraq decision.

Along Hempstead Turnpike, the Main Street of Levittown, the response was clear.
With a Constitution that vigorously protects and defends our right to debate,
argue and dispute the policies of our government, it is equally clear that once
we make the decision to engage in combat we have a moral obligation to stand
with our troops.

As a result the Levittown rally wasn't held in support of war or its military
objectives. It didn't celebrate missions flown or enemy armored forces
destroyed. Rather, it was designed to send a message to our armed forces,
ranging from buck privates to squadron commanders, that Levittown and Long
Island stand beside them.

And Levittown understands the horrors of war. Its original homeowners had
endured battlegrounds at Iwo Jima, Aachen or Salerno. They faced combat at
30,000 feet in a B-17 or at 30 fathoms in a fleet class submarine. After serving
in the military they wanted nothing more than to go home, start their families,
enjoy their jobs, mow their lawns and wash their cars. They wanted to be as far
as possible from the carnage of war. They wanted the peace and normalcy that
civilian life should bring.

Yet, as this recent rally proved, Levittown continues to stand with those who
serve the colors. In attendance were "Gold Star" mothers who have lost sons in
combat and Vietnam vets who have not walked since mortar attacks 35 years ago.
Also there were grandmothers who still grieve for brothers listed as missing in
action 60 years ago as well as parents whose children are riding with Marine
recon platoons somewhere in Iraq.

What this Levittown rally represented was our collective spirit of solidarity
with American troops and the growing unease many of us have with those who are
not only protesting this conflict but do so in such a way as to potentially
undermine the safety of our soldiers.

Holding candles and singing the national anthem, this people attending this
rally reminded our neighbors, and ourselves, that it is profoundly wrong to give
comfort to our enemies when your protest demeans this nation's armed forces. The
rally reminded us that it is profoundly wrong when protest damages our ability
to preserve, defend and protect our citizens and our nation.

The men and women of Levittown have known war and find it horrid. In addition to
generations of veterans, there are cops and firefighters that live in these
modest homes and quiet neighborhoods. These are the men who live with the
horrors of Sept. 11, going back to the job after burying their colleagues.

And it is Levittown that appreciates the fact that 60 years after it took 50
million dead to prove that appeasement and pacifism are inadequate responses to
tyranny, these forces are being resurrected again.

How appropriate that it is unassuming Levittown, the icon of suburbia that the
pundits love to skewer, should become the conscience of America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             500 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 8, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Crossed Line by Arresting Onlookers, Antiwar Protesters Say

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 379 words


Antiwar protesters said the police arrested more than 70 people yesterday who
were merely looking on as others lay down on a sidewalk to block the entrance of
a Midtown office building.

But the police said they arrested only those who broke the law.

The demonstrators gathered about 8 a.m. on 56th street near Fifth Avenue across
the street from a building that houses offices of an affiliate of the Carlyle
Group, an investment firm that the protesters contend is profiting from the war
in Iraq.

About 20 people crossed to the south side of the street and lay in front of the
building, said Mark Milano, a member of the M-27 Coalition, a group that planned
the demonstration. Scores of others who were neither willing nor prepared to be
arrested stayed on the north side, he said.

After the police arrested those on the south side of the street, Mr. Milano
said, they moved across the street and penned in the crowd there, arresting them
as well.

Cheree J. Dillon, a spokeswoman for the coalition, said the latter group was not
told to disperse and was not allowed to leave.

There were 94 arrests in all, for civil disobedience and obstructing government
administration, the police said, adding that the protesters were blocking
pedestrian traffic.

"The police effected arrests of people who broke the law," said Capt. James
Klein, a police spokesman. "And if they have questions about their innocence or
guilt, they will be allowed to voice that in a court of law."

Antiwar organizers said the arrests were part of a pattern of police harassment,
which they said has included holding protesters arrested on misdemeanor charges
for as long as 10 hours.

"We're alarmed at the police trying to intimidate antiwar protesters," said
William K. Dobbs, a spokesman for United for Peace and Justice, which organized
the large antiwar marches in New York City in February and March.

The police maintain that they have not violated any free speech rights.

The protesters say the Carlyle Group and an affiliate, Riverstone Holdings,
which invests in the energy industry, stand to profit from the war and any
subsequent rebuilding in Iraq. But a spokesman for the Carlyle Group, Chris
Ullman, responded that "Carlyle is proud to own a few companies that make
products that keep America safe."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             501 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Stop Collecting Data on Protesters' Politics

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words


When a series of large antiwar protests began nearly eight weeks ago, the New
York Police Department started questioning hundreds of people arrested at the
demonstrations about their prior political activity and recording the
information in a database.

But yesterday, after the practice came to light, the Police Department said it
would destroy the database, created with a debriefing form, and largely abandon
the initiative, which civil libertarians and constitutional law experts said was
deeply troubling.

"After a review, the department has decided to eliminate the use of the
Demonstration Debriefing Form," Michael O'Looney, the department's chief
spokesman, said in a statement. "Arrestees will no longer be asked questions
pertaining to prior demonstration history, or school name. All information
gathered since the form's inception on Feb. 15 has been destroyed."

Several constitutional scholars and civil libertarians said that the practice
raised grave questions about whether asking people about their political
affiliations or activity would have a severe chilling effect on protest and
speech that are protected by the First Amendment.

Central to the practice was the debriefing form, which detectives used to record
where the arrested protesters went to school, their membership in any
organizations and their involvement in past protests.

Mr. O'Looney said Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and his deputy
commissioner for intelligence, David Cohen, a former top Central Intelligence
Agency official, did not know the debriefing form was in use. Mr. Cohen oversees
the Intelligence Division detectives who conducted the questioning sessions at 1
Police Plaza as the protesters waited for their arrests to be processed.

"When it was brought to their attention," Mr. O'Looney said, "they took a look
at it, decided some of those questions were not critical to our needs and
decided to end its use."

He would not comment on the constitutional issues raised by the questions or say
who had developed the form. Mr. O'Looney said that no disciplinary action was
being contemplated against those responsible for developing the practice.

The police practice came to light after the New York Civil Liberties Union,
which had notified protest organizers that it was seeking reports of possible
police abuse or interference at the city's first large antiwar protest on Feb.
15, received hundreds of e-mail messages, said Christopher Dunn, the group's
associate legal director. More than a dozen of the messages included accounts of
arrested demonstrators' being questioned about their political activity, Mr.
Dunn said.

The group later obtained a copy of the debriefing form from lawyers who had
sought to represent some of the demonstrators taken to 1 Police Plaza for
questioning after protests on Feb. 15 and March 22, Mr. Dunn said. Those lawyers
were in most cases denied access to the arrested protesters, raising additional
concerns about the protesters' right to counsel, Mr. Dunn said.

The Civil Liberties Union sent a letter to Mr. Kelly on Tuesday complaining that
the information sought during the questioning was constitutionally protected,
and called on him to halt the practice. The letter cited the group's concern
that the department had "embarked upon a concerted campaign to collect
information about lawful First Amendment activity" and was "using the coercive
environment of an arrest interrogation to obtain that information outside the
presence of counsel."

Yesterday, after a reporter inquired about the questioning and the
commissioner's response to the letter, Mr. O'Looney said Mr. Kelly had halted
the practice, but would not elaborate on how it had begun.

Mr. O'Looney said that the department would continue to ask arrested protesters
what groups they were affiliated with and would retain the information in the
form of a tally, but not with individuals' names. He said that knowing how many
people had been arrested from particular groups would help the department assign
the right number of officers to future protests by the same groups.

He also said that because the department viewed the questioning of the arrested
demonstrators as "debriefings" rather than "interrogations," they were not
entitled to a lawyer, a position with which Mr. Dunn and other civil liberties
lawyers vehemently disagreed.

Donna Lieberman, the Civil Liberties Union's executive director, said the group
was pleased that the department had reversed what she called an ill-conceived
policy. "This is a practice that never should have happened and raised serious
First Amendment concerns," she said. "But the good news is that the city had
second thoughts about it in response to our objections."

The disclosure of the practice and the department's decision to halt it came
just two weeks after a federal judge relaxed guidelines that for nearly 20 years
had limited police surveillance and investigation of political groups. The
guidelines, which are known as the Handschu Agreement, were put in place as a
result of a class action lawsuit brought in 1971 on behalf of people who felt
threatened by police surveillance of political activities in the late 1960's and
early 1970's. They required the department to seek approval of a special panel
to investigate political groups or activities.

The judge, Charles S. Haight of Federal District Court in Manhattan, eased the
limits after the police sought greater latitude to conduct terrorism
investigations. The lawsuit stemmed from the activities of the Intelligence
Division, the same unit responsible for the questioning.

Jethro M. Eisenstein, one of the lawyers who handled the case that led to the
limits and recently argued before Judge Haight against their loosening,
contended yesterday that the questioning -- some of which occurred before the
guidelines were changed on March 25 -- violated the earlier limits and might
also have violated the new guidelines. Mr. O'Looney said the department took the
position that questioning violated neither set of guidelines.

Intelligence gathering in all its forms, whether surveillance of mosques or
keeping track of homeless people, has become more widespread in American
policing since Sept. 11, 2001. But the practice has raised new questions for a
society founded on the principles of individual freedoms.

While such practices seem threatening to some people, others are more willing to
cede some rights in the pursuit of greater security. But one of the protesters
who was arrested on Feb. 15 and questioned about his political affiliations and
past protesting felt otherwise.

"I was very concerned," said Brendan Knowlton, 26, a computer programmer who was
arrested as he was trying to reach the protest that day on First Avenue. "I felt
that the cops were on a fishing expedition," he said. "The whole thing felt
sketchy. It felt inappropriate and irrelevant for why we were actually there."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A protester being arrested Monday at a sit-in in front of the
Manhattan office of the Carlyle Group, a private investment firm with major
defense industry holdings. (Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             502 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 13, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: DEMONSTRATORS;
Protesters, Unable to Stop War, Now Argue Against Occupation

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


Unfazed that the war has rolled ahead like a juggernaut, thousands of antiwar
demonstrators rallied here today demanding an early end to the military's
presence in Iraq.

The march was smaller than those of recent months, which sometimes drew tens of
thousands in the capital. Protests in foreign cities, too, were smaller.

While peace groups marched through streets around the White House, which were
closed to traffic and patrolled by hundreds of police officers, people waving
American flags rallied in comparable numbers a few miles away near Capitol Hill
to express their support of the war.

Whether the military campaign was succeeding, many of the antiwar protesters
said, was not the point.

"The effects of this war are going to be around for a long time," said Tessie
Fletcher, 19.

Dripping wet, she was at the edge of a fountain at Freedom Plaza, two blocks
from the White House, where she and others in the group had frolicked on a
pleasant spring afternoon.

"The devastation from the bombing won't go away," Ms. Fletcher said.

The protesters, in a rhetorical shift, have begun to argue against occupation
rather than war.

"You don't liberate people by dropping bombs on them," said Mahmoud El-Yousseph,
who had come with his three sons from Ohio for the weekend. "This is insane."

"This is just Bush's excuse to take over the Middle East," his son Safy, 11,
said.

Although the march focused on the war, many in the crowd also voice their
frustrations with other policies. Groups critical of the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund and other global financial institutions plan to
rally Sunday to protest economic globalization, and some of them joined the
peace march today. Three people were arrested at the march, a spokesman for the
Metropolitan Police Department said.

"We're here for the war, but also for Latin American issues," Debbie Davis of
Milwaukee said as she assembled stilts for her Statue of Liberty costume. Ms.
Davis said she came to Washington to protest United States military involvement
in Latin America and free-trade policies.

In London, where an estimated 2 million people had protested before the war,
20,000 turned out today. In Berlin, there were about 12,000 marchers, The
Associated Press said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antiwar demonstrators yesterday at Freedom Plaza in Washington.
A nearby rally supported the use of force to topple President Saddam Hussein.
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             503 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: SOUTHERN IRAQ;
Taking Over City Hall, Local Cleric Won't Leave

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: KUT, Iraq, April 14


A local cleric has ensconced himself in city hall after appointing himself mayor
of this southern Iraqi city, and he refuses to leave.

The cleric, Sayed Abbas, is a Shiite Muslim who claims to be a direct descendant
of the sect's founder, Ali. He took up residence at city hall about a week ago,
according to the United States Marines.

Mr. Abbas has hired 300 Iranian Shiites to protect him. They staged a
demonstration outside city hall today shouting, "La, la, Chalabi!" -- No, no,
Chalabi -- in reference to Ahmad Chalabi, the leader of the Iraqi National
Congress who some officials in the Bush administration favor to lead an interim
government in Iraq.

Many of the 300,000 residents of this river city southeast of Baghdad seem to
support an interim American presence, if the mood of the crowds and the
political posters are to be believed.

Mr. Abbas is said to be a local leader of the Supreme Council for the Islamic
Revolution in Iraq, a political party that was outlawed under Saddam Hussein and
that has ties to Iran. While military officials played down Mr. Abbas's support
here, photographs of Ayatollah Muhammad Bakar Hakim, the council's leader, can
be seen on telephone poles, car windows and shop doors.

In towns and villages all across the south, men of questionable social stature
with ties to foreign political parties are stepping uninvited into the power
void. In Amarah, for instance, a small family with ties to the Lebanese militant
group Hezbollah is claiming title to the town. In the city of Kumait, three
sheiks with ties to Iran are claiming municipal authority.

But Mr. Abbas is by far the most ostentatious of the lot.

His faction was armed with pistols and Kalashnikov rifles, until the marines
confiscated them on Sunday. Despite warnings to vacate the premises, Mr. Abbas
and his retinue of 30 bodyguards have refused.

Military officials today prohibited interviews with Mr. Abbas.

"He's self-appointed," said Capt. Peter Tabash, a civil affairs officer with
Task Force Tarawa of the Second Marine Expeditionary Brigade. "But they are not
in charge. We are."

Captain Tabash said the marines were trying to negotiate with the sheik, but
that has proved fruitless. If Mr. Abbas insists on occupying the mayor's office
without a public mandate, the captain said, then the military will have to send
in Special Forces troops to remove him.

"We don't want one family grabbing power," he said. "Nobody but us will be in
charge while we're here."

Looting here was minimal in the aftermath of the fall of the Baath Party.
Municipal water is still running, and large parts of the city still have power.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             504 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Challenger in Nigeria Warns of Protests if Election Is Fradulent

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: ABUJA, Nigeria, April 16


President Olusegun Obasanjo's leading challenger in Nigeria's elections
threatened today to stage "mass action" if officials try to rig Saturday's
presidential polls.

The warning from the challenger, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, came amid mounting anger
in opposition ranks about the results of last weekend's parliamentary elections,
showing Mr. Obasanjo's party far ahead.

"We would like to emphasize that any repeat of the fraud of April 12, a fraud we
have rejected in totality, will result in mass action and its consequences,
which no one can today foresee," Mr. Buhari told a news conference. He did not
elaborate.

At least a dozen people have died in violence since last Saturday's election,
the first vote since military rule ended in 1999 in Nigeria, Africa's most
populous country and the world's eighth-biggest oil producer.

The Independent National Electoral Commission admits its performance has been
substandard but rejected General Buhari's call to rerun the entire election.

"On their demand for the cancellation of election results, we made it clear that
the results announced by returning officers cannot be canceled," said Abel
Guobadia, the election commission's chairman.

More than four days after the ballot for the National Assembly, only 296 of the
360 seats in the House of Representatives had been declared. But with 178 seats
in the bag, Mr. Obasanjo's People's Democratic Party, was certain to get an
outright majority. It was the same story in the 109-seat Senate.

General Buhari's All Nigeria Peoples' Party was running a distant second.

Speaking in Abuja, the capital, General Buhari was flanked by other opposition
presidential contenders, including Emeka Ojukwu, the leader of Biafran rebels in
Nigeria's 1967-70 civil war.

"What happened on Saturday, April 12, in many parts of the country, fell short
of the minimum requirements for a free, fair, credible and transparent
election," General Buhari said.

Both he and Mr. Obasanjo had previously run the country as military rulers.

The primary difference, in a country where ethnic and religious rivalries have
caused huge bloodshed, is that Mr. Obasanjo is a Yoruba and a Christian from the
south, while General Buhari is a northern Muslim.

General Buhari did not call for a boycott of the presidential vote. But there
was a tiny turnout today in the eastern state of Enugu, one of several where the
electoral commission ordered a revote of the parliamentary elections because of
violence and fraud.

"There is supposed to be voting today, but the opposition parties are not going
to vote," said Petrus Agballah, a member of Mr. Ojukwu's All Progressives Grand
Alliance. "We are boycotting this election."

Last weekend's unexpected electoral victories by Mr. Obasanjo's party set off
violence in the Niger Delta and in a remote corner of the largely Islamic north
and angered Mr. Obasanjo's rivals in his southwest home.

So far, foreign observer groups from the European Union, the Commonwealth and
the United States have been measured in their criticism of the conduct of the
polls.

Nigeria pumps 2.2 million barrels daily of premium light crude sought by
American refiners. Western nations depend on its military for peacekeeping in
West Africa, and unrest in Nigeria could further destabilize the volatile
region, analysts say.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             505 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTEREFFECTS: THE DEMONSTRATORS;
A Flashback to the 60's For an Antiwar Protester

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1290 words

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C., April 23


At the time, Brett A. Bursey says, he seemed to be having a 60's flashback.

There he was at the Columbia Metropolitan Airport with his antiwar sign. There
were the thousands of Republicans gathering to welcome a president. There were
the police officers arresting him for trespassing.

The first time this happened was in May 1969, before a visit by Richard M.
Nixon. The charges against Mr. Bursey were dropped after the South Carolina
Supreme Court ruled that if protesters were on public property -- as the antiwar
demonstrators were -- they could not be charged with trespassing.

Last Oct. 24, 33 years later and about 100 yards away, the now graying Mr.
Bursey was again arrested for trespassing, this time before a visit by President
Bush. The charge was soon dropped.

But last month, the local United States attorney, J. Strom Thurmond Jr., brought
federal charges against Mr. Bursey under a seldom-used statute that allows the
Secret Service to restrict access to areas the president is visiting. He faces
six months in jail and a $5,000 fine.

This being South Carolina, Mr. Bursey's story includes lots of colorful history,
old grudges and improbable plot twists, not to mention the Confederate battle
flag.

But to some legal experts it is also part of a growing pattern of repression
against protesters, demonstrators and dissenters. The American Civil Liberties
Union says it has found many examples, like increased arrests and interrogations
of protesters and the shunning of celebrities who have opposed the war in Iraq.

"When you connect the dots, you see very clearly a climate of chilled dissent
and debate," said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the civil liberties
group.

In particular, Mr. Romero said, there is a growing practice of corralling
protesters in "free-speech zones," which are often so far from the object of the
protest as to be invisible. "It's an effort to mitigate the effectiveness of
free speech," he said.

And he does not buy the argument that such zones are necessary to protect the
president and other officials. "John Hinckley wasn't carrying an anti-Reagan
sign when he shot him," Mr. Romero said.

It was just such a "protest zone" that got Mr. Bursey in trouble last fall. A
spokeswoman for the airport said officials there had established a protest area
on the verge of a highway, a good half mile from the hangar where the president
would be speaking. (Airport police are not sure if anyone actually protested at
the official zone, she said.)

Mr. Bursey hoped he and some friends could protest somewhere closer, maybe
across the road from the hangar, he said. The police in Charleston and
Greenville had been accommodating, he said, when he had asked to avoid the
protest zones, which he described as being "out there behind the coliseum by the
Dumpsters."

It did not work this time.

"We attempted to dialogue for a while, them telling me to go to the free-speech
zone, me saying I was in it: the United States of America," Mr. Bursey said.
Finally, he said, an airport policeman told him he had to put down his sign ("No
War for Oil") or leave.

" 'You mean, it's the content of my sign?' I asked him," Mr. Bursey said. "He
said, 'Yes, sir, it's the content of your sign.' "

Mr. Bursey kept the sign and was arrested; he said he watched Air Force One land
from the back of a patrol wagon and spent the night in the county jail.

A Secret Service agent was present at the arrest, Mr. Bursey said, but he added
that no one could have seen him and his companions as a security threat. "There
was no one under 50 in that crowd," said Mr. Bursey, who is 54. "In my mind, at
that time, we didn't pose a security threat; we posed a political threat."

A spokesman for the United States attorney's office, Scott N. Schools, said the
message on the sign was not the problem. "It's not the fact of what Mr. Bursey
was doing," Mr. Schools said. "The problem was where he was doing it. That's the
basis of the prosecution."

Mr. Schools did allow that federal prosecutions of protesters at presidential
events had been rare.

Since 1992, only a dozen cases involving this part of the United States Code,
Section 1752 of Title 18, have been referred to federal prosecutors by the
Secret Service and other government agencies, according to TRACfed, a database
of federal enforcement information at Syracuse University.

Most of those referrals were dropped; three resulted in trials or pleas (the
best known was the prosecution of a mentally ill and heavily armed man who tried
to hand-deliver a letter to President Bush at his Texas ranch).

Mr. Schools said he could not comment on why the government was taking the
unusual step against Mr. Bursey, but he said it would become clear at the trial,
which is likely to be in the next month or two.

"Nobody's seen a case like this before," said Bill Nettles, a former public
defender who is on Mr. Bursey's legal team. "I have to wonder if some of it's
not Brett."

By this he means Brett Bursey the local character, professional protester and
liberal voice in a conservative state (he's a vegetarian in the land of pork
barbecue).

Since 1968, "I've been a political organizer," Mr. Bursey said. "That's been my
job, that's been my mission. I've at least been diligent at it."

The son of a Navy dentist, Mr. Bursey has a life story compelling enough to be a
novel. And at least some of it appears to be; anyone who has read Pat Conroy's
1995 best seller "Beach Music" will remember the student radicals who tried to
destroy a draft board office, only to discover at trial that one of their
leaders (and friends) was a government agent.

That happened to Mr. Bursey, and he ended up spending almost two years in the
penitentiary for malicious destruction of property -- as he puts it, for
spraying "Hell No We Won't Go" on walls. But not before he spent some time
hiding in New York City (he says his family feared he would be killed in
prison). Then he was arrested in Texas for buying 500 pounds of peyote buttons,
but beat that charge on a technicality, he said.

Indeed, he has been arrested so often that although he thinks the first time was
when he burned a Confederate battle flag, he is not sure. "Lordy, it was such a
busy time," he said. "My chronology has been kind of messed up."

Unlike most of his peers, Mr. Bursey never got a nine-to-five job; instead he
founded "progressive" organizations and started an alternative weekly newspaper.
And he protested against things: nuclear power, nuclear warheads, government
corruption and, of course, the aforementioned Confederate battle flag, which
until two years ago flew on the dome of the Statehouse here.

Columbia, however, is not exactly a protest-friendly town, especially these
days.

Yellow ribbons are everywhere, from the airport to the Statehouse to Angeline's
Beauty and Wig Salon on Assembly Street. Instead of advertising sandwich
specials, the sign outside a Wendy's reads "Support Our Troops." And plenty of
people remember Mr. Bursey's youthful transgressions, including the county
sheriff, who arrested him at the airport in 1969.

"I've told Brett that in this climate, in this state, there is a real
possibility that he gets convicted," said Mr. Nettles, the lawyer.

In the current case, he plans to argue that the federal statute is
unconstitutional as it applies to Mr. Bursey, who he said was not the only
person in the area the Secret Service says was restricted; the others, he says,
were mostly Bush supporters. And Mr. Nettles said he was surprised that the
federal prosecutors had not tried to drop or settle the case, which is
attracting attention to his client and his views.

"If they really wanted to torture Brett," he said, "if what they really wanted
was to take his voice -- they'd dismiss it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brett A. Bursey last week outside the Columbia Metropolitan
Airport, where he was arrested in October. (Travis Bell for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             506 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 28, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

MEDIA;
Antiwar Cause Offers Utne aSecond Act

BYLINE:  By BURL GILYARD

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 999 words


As the attack on Iraq drew near in March, Nina Rothschild Utne, the chief
executive and sole owner of Utne magazine, headed to Washington with members of
Code Pink, a women's antiwar group. There, while protesting at the White House,
she was arrested with 25 others, including the writers Alice Walker and Maxine
Hong Kingston.

Some writers are old hands at getting arrested, but it is rare for a magazine
executive to join them. "They took us off in the paddy wagon," said Ms. Utne,
49, who has chronicled her activism and arrest in the pages of her magazine.
"I'd never done anything like that before."

But the movement's protests (and Ms. Utne's arrest) have provided a marketing
opportunity for the magazine, which has been struggling financially. The
screaming pink buttons and bumper stickers of the Code Pink movement are not
only sold by the magazine but also promote Ms. Utne's business, listing the
magazine's Web site, utne.com. "We have a platform, so we're using it," Ms. Utne
said. "I'm happy to build name-brand recognition around this issue."

The magazine's embrace of the Code Pink movement is emblematic of Utne's quest
to find new readers after reaching its cultural zenith and circulation peak in
the early to mid-90's, when it was known as the Utne Reader. Now, the magazine,
a bimonthly based in Minneapolis, has revamped its look and editorial approach.

Long known as the Reader's Digest of the alternative press, it is scaling back
its use of reprinted material from other sources in favor of original writing,
expanding its cultural coverage and dropping "Reader" from the title. It is also
pushing a liberal political message more overtly. But is Utne standing on the
crest of a progressive revival or grasping at past glory?

The Utne Reader began in 1984 as a 12-page newsletter, culling the best material
from off-the-beaten-path sources that readers did not have time to find
themselves. By the middle of the 1990's, the Utne Reader's circulation had
reached 310,000 and it had received three National Magazine Award nominations
for general excellence.

But the Internet's rise diminished some of the need for a magazine like the Utne
Reader, said Mike Tronnes, the magazine's advertising director from 1987 to 1996
and now the editor of Cursor.org, an alternative webzine based in Minneapolis.
"Look at Google," Mr. Tronnes said. "You can go and find anything. Utne's
appearance before the Internet really allowed it to have a great utility. It
just doesn't have that same kind of media buzz anymore."

Circulation dropped throughout the late 1990's, to about 225,000, where it
stands now. In 1999, Ms. Utne took the reins of the magazine, which was founded
by her husband, Eric, when he chose to step away from day-to-day operations.

A bid to sell the magazine a year later found no takers. Ron Williams, the chief
executive of Dragonfly Media, a Brooklyn-based publisher, considered buying,
merging with or collaborating with Utne in 2000, but walked away. "We all
concluded that it just wasn't the right moment for either organization," Mr.
Williams said. "There's no question that single-title, thought-leader magazines
-- no matter what their cultural or political slant might be -- are really
facing unprecedented challenges with their business model. They are stuck."

Ms. Utne says the magazine came close to shutting down after Mr. Williams opted
out. Utne says it managed to break even in 2001, but lost money -- it won't say
how much -- in 2002 on revenue of $4.5 million.

Utne's kindred magazines are also struggling with the bottom line. The Atlantic
Monthly, for one, has increased the number of subscription renewals and
newsstand and ad sales, but is still losing money. "I don't know of any model
that's really working -- that is to say generating decent profit -- for most
opinion-leader books," said John Fox Sullivan, the president of The Atlantic.

Ms. Utne freely admits she cannot afford a traditional direct-mail campaign, a
standard tool for building circulation. "This is a real bootstrap operation,"
she said.

Clearly Utne magazine's performance is measured against a different yardstick
from, say, In Style or Sports Illustrated, which are unlikely to be putting out
any peace paraphernalia.

Utne remains one of the largest members of the Independent Press Association.
The group's interim executive director, Jeremy Smith, says most of the 400
members take a nontraditional approach to publishing. "They're really operating
outside of the commercial world," he said. "These are not advertising-driven
magazines; they're subscription-driven. That's really their business model. Part
of what an independent magazine tries to do is create a community of people who
share common values."

Ms. Utne says her magazine continues to seek out like-minded organizations and
media outlets. The magazine has about a dozen cross-promotional partnerships,
including with New Dimensions, an independent public radio program, and Co-Op
America, an environmental group.

Utne has also found a foe to rally against. In his most recent column, Jay
Walljasper, the editorial director, writes, "We must do everything we can to
unseat George W. Bush and his Congressional supporters in next year's election."
In an interview, Mr. Walljasper said, "The personal is political -- we subscribe
to that."

The new-look Utne and the redoubled promotional efforts have resulted in some
encouraging signs. The magazine says early figures show that Utne's
January-February issue had the strongest newsstand sales of any in four years.
That mirrors a recently reported rise in newsstand sales for other
issue-oriented magazines like The Atlantic, Harper's and The Nation.

Despite the tough road ahead for the magazine, Ms. Utne remains upbeat. "We
really feel like we're in a turnaround, a relaunching," she said. "We've really
tightened up the operation and we have a strong platform to build on. To me Code
Pink is Exhibit A of putting our editorial mission into everything thatwe do."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nina Rothschild Utne, the chief executive of Utne magazine,
held the sign "Are There 3 Wise Men in Washington?" at a Code Pink rally at the
White House in December. (Karen Tumelty); Utne magazine, which made its
reputation in the mid-1990's as Utne Reader by reprinting the best writing in
small alternative outlets, has been redesigned, reconceived and renamed. It
prints more original material, and has become more overtly political.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             507 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE WAR: THE OCCUPATION;
G.I.'s in a Desert Town Face Rising Iraqi Hostility

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

DATELINE: HIT, Iraq, May 29


Capt. Andrew Watson of Carson City, Nev., removed his helmet and mopped the
sweat off his head this afternoon as he stood at the gate of his dusty
encampment and puzzled over what had prompted the rioting, grenade throwing and
arson on Wednesday in this little desert town that falls within his "A.O.," or
area of operations.

"We have taken great pains to be aware of cultural differences," he said. "We do
not want to be ugly Americans. We are here to be a friend."

But the challenges now facing the American occupation of Iraq exploded here this
week when a rocket-propelled grenade was fired at one of Captain Watson's
convoys on Tuesday in this desert speck of a town 90 miles northwest of Baghdad.

Soldiers of the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment responded by bringing local
policemen into one of Hit's neighborhoods and conducting house-to-house
searches, according to residents and military officials.

The residents say the soldiers kicked down doors and climbed over walls at other
homes while an assault helicopter circled above the neighborhood.

Word spread like a prairie fire across the city that American soldiers had burst
in on the Muslim women of Hit, catching them in various states of immodest
cover.

"We are Muslims, and we don't allow people to trespass on our property and go
into our houses and search our women," one angry resident said today. He would
identify himself only as Abu Ahmed, age 37.

In this way, it seems, the earnest American quest to be sensitive to cultural
differences can quickly turn to misunderstanding and violence in a country still
nervous and restive after the fall of Saddam Hussein.

On Wednesday, American soldiers returned to the police station to talk with the
local authorities about security. A crowd gathered and pelted the station with
stones. Then someone threw a hand grenade over the wall of the police compound.
Two soldiers suffered minor wounds, and reinforcements raced to the scene.

"The citizens didn't accept the behavior of the Americans," an elderly resident
in a white robe said in unaccented English that he learned while a student at a
technical institute in St. Louis in the 1960's.

The crowd grew. The soldiers formed a cordon with their guns aimed outward as
they evacuated their wounded, witnesses said. Warning shots rang out. One local
man said he had been shot through the leg. When the troops retreated, the
crowded rioted for hours, burning the municipal building and the police station
in protest at what was viewed as the "collaboration" of the police.

It was one of a series of attacks this week in which six American soldiers were
killed and a dozen wounded, most in central Iraq.

The violence has underscored the challenges American troops face as they take
over many of the functions of a national police force in Iraq. The injuries in
Hit were minor compared with other attacks this week.

But confrontations like the one in Hit could multiply as allied forces begin
enforcing a tough gun-collection program after June 1.

Until this week, the war had passed over this industrial town. There was no
bombing here during the military campaign and no looting afterward, the town
elders say.

Many men threw their weapons into the blue waters of the Euphrates River three
weeks ago and welcomed the Americans who finally showed up promising the return
of economic life.

But today, the municipal building and the police station are smoldering wrecks.
A vigilante with an AK-47 stood guard as if to tell the Americans that they are
in for a fight if they return.

After attacks on convoys that killed five Americans this week, a sixth soldier
was killed today, military officials said, when "hostile fire" was directed at a
convoy on the main supply route from Kuwait near the town of Anaconda. The
unidentified soldier was pronounced dead at the 21st Combat Support Hospital, a
military statement said.

Late Wednesday, American troops opened fire on an Iraqi civilian vehicle in
Samarra, killing two people and wounding two others. Military officials said the
vehicle had failed to stop at a roadblock.

While the level of alarm over convoy attacks was rising, American officials
acknowledged today that they had mistakenly released from a military internment
camp a suspected mass murderer believed to be responsible for the deaths of
thousands of Iraqi Shiites in 1991.

The suspect, Muhammad Jawad an-Neifus, was released on May 18 from the Bucca
internment facility at Umm Qasr, officials said. He has been accused of helping
the Iraqi Army kill thousands of people during Mr. Hussein's repression of a
Shiite rebellion in southern Iraq at the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991.

Known as Sheik an-Neifus by the residents of Hilla, the site of one of the
largest mass graves discovered so far, he was arrested by marines on April 26
and then turned over to the Army military police on April 29, the statement
said.

"When he appeared for his initial screening, there was nothing unusual about the
story he told," the statement added, indicating that his "true identity" was not
known then. "Therefore, he was cleared for release."

American military officials said tonight that they were "solely responsible for
his erroneous release and are conducting a thorough investigation to ensure no
further recurrences." A $25,000 reward was offered for information leading to
his capture.

Mr. Neifus lived in a compound near Hilla. On Wednesday, American soldiers and
policemen went to the house and arrested two of his grandsons. Other relatives
in the house said all the accusations against the family -- that it helped Mr.
Hussein's henchmen kill men, women and children in 1991 -- were false.

The complexity of postwar Iraq has led American forces into law enforcement
tasks for which they are not well prepared. They are still searching for Mr.
Hussein and his key officials. They are fighting hardened criminals freed from
prison by an amnesty granted by Mr. Hussein late last year.

For many Iraqis, the shifting role of American troops has been a shock. Just
eight weeks ago, they were rolling across the country passing out candy to
children. Now they are kicking in doors and blocking traffic to seize the
weapons that most Iraqis have for home defense.

In Hit, the change of perception about the American presence is palpable.
"Having the Americans standing in the streets really provokes the people," said
Qusay Yusef, a carpenter with four children.

For now, the Americans have withdrawn. Captain Watson said that the patrols and
roadblocks would continue, but that his troops would still be "at pains" not to
appear as "ugly Americans."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq highlighting Hit: Soldiers searched house to house in Hit
after an attack on a convoy. (pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             508 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: NEWS ANALYSIS;
Looking Beyond Words

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

DATELINE: AQABA, Jordan, June 4


Locked in conflict, fearing for their very existence as nations, Israelis and
Palestinians have for generations prized national unity, deferring or papering
over internal disputes about the means and ends of their struggles.

But before even hoping to end the conflict with each other, each side must first
face up to these conflicts within itself, according to the iron logic of a new
international peace plan. Today, President Bush secured commitments from Ariel
Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, and Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime
minister, to begin doing just that.

Mr. Sharon promised to begin confronting the settler movement he nurtured for
decades. That means plunging into a long-postponed national debate, which Mr.
Sharon has tentatively begun, over what Israel wants from its occupation of the
West Bank and Gaza Strip, which it captured in the 1967 war and where it has now
settled 200,000 of its citizens.

Mr. Abbas promised to end the armed Palestinian uprising and to permit only law
enforcement officers to carry guns. That means stopping the terrorists who have
hijacked the Palestinian national dream and shifting the internal Palestinian
conversation away from empathy for suicide bombers to horror at the killing.

To make peace in the Middle East, Israelis and Palestinians may have to come to
the brink of what they fear could be civil conflict. If they are sincere about
seeing this process through, each ofthe leaders here, including President Bush,
will have to take severe political tests, and all of them will have to pass.

Tonight in Jerusalem, thousands of settlers gathered to angrily protest today's
summit, accusing their old ally, Mr. Sharon, of surrendering to terrorism. In
the Gaza Strip, leaders of Hamas rejected Mr. Abbas's suggestion that they
surrender their arms. It seemed fitting that these men took this leadership
challenge upon themselves in Aqaba, which translates as "obstacle." They met
down the beach from the ruins of a fort captured in 1917 by Lawrence of Arabia
during a previous attempt to reshape the Middle East. On each side of this
triangular summit, doubts weighed heavily about the depth of the others'
commitments.

Palestinian officials fear that Mr. Sharon's talk of dismantling "unauthorized
outposts" of settlements was meant merely to create political theater, to
generate an appearance of Israeli sacrifice for peace without much cost to the
settlement movement. In recent years, settlers have set up dozens of these
makeshift outposts of trailers and tents on hilltops across the West Bank,
sometimes populating them with only a handful of people, if anyone.

Yet evacuating any outpost is almost sure to generate searing images of settlers
screaming at soldiers and perhaps even fighting with them, as they have in the
past. Then, after a time, the outposts can easily be set up again, as they have
been.

As an obstacle to a geographically contiguous Palestinian state in the West
Bank, these outposts pale beside giant settlements like Ariel and Ma'ale Adumim,
with some 20,000 residents or more, or beside smaller but deeply rooted
settlements like Itamar, near Nablus. Those settlements are untouched so far by
the peace plan.

"The settlements are perfectly legitimate," Alan Baker, the legal adviser to the
Foreign Ministry, said, drawing a distinction between them and the relatively
few outposts that Israel considers illegal.

During the 10 years of the Oslo agreement, which unlike this plan did not
explicitly address settlements, the population of the settlements doubled. The
new plan, though, calls for a freeze on settlement growth, which Mr. Sharon did
not address today.

It was perhaps significant that Mr. Sharon spoke in English, not in Hebrew.
Israeli leaders have often accused Palestinian leaders, particularly Yasir
Arafat, of speaking in English and not Arabic when they delivered messages that
were popular with the Americans but not necessarily with their own people.

Yet at 75, Mr. Sharon, an architect of the settlement movement as a means of
promoting Israel's security, has unique credentials to question whether
settlements now safeguard or endanger Israel's existence by perpetuating the
occupation. "It is in Israel's interest not to govern the Palestinians," he said
today.

A peaceful Palestinian democracy, he continued, "will promote the long-term
security and well-being of Israel as a Jewish state."

Like Mr. Sharon, Mr. Abbas, who spoke in Arabic, was careful to couch his
endorsement of the peace plan not just in idealistic terms but in hard-nosed
language about his people's national interests. In renouncing "terror against
the Israelis wherever they may be," he said that "such methods" clashed with
Palestinians' religious and moral traditions. "These methods also conflict with
the kind of state we wish to build, based on human rights and rule of law," he
said.

Yet Mr. Abbas's remarks were not without a note of ambiguity. Even as he ruled
out violence to deal with occupation, he said that Palestinians would be
partners in "the international war against occupation and terrorism," according
to the White House translation of his remarks.

After more than a month, Mr. Abbas's oratory about stopping violence has yet to
be put to the test. Mr. Abbas has been trying to negotiate a cease fire with
Hamas, Islamic Jihad and other violent groups, rather than to arrest those
intent on violence, and to confiscate arms.

Mr. Abbas told Mr. Bush today that it would take him a couple of more weeks to
persuade Hamas to agree to stop the violence, Palestinian officials said.

Nabil Shaath, the Palestinian foreign minister, said that Mr. Abbas could work
only through persuasion, because Israeli raids had left him without police
forces. Yet Muhammad Dahlan, Mr. Abbas's security minister, has thousands of
armed men under this control.

Mr. Abbas does not have nearly Mr. Sharon's domestic political strength. But he
has credibility as a warhorse of the mainstream Fatah movement and as a
Palestinian refugee of the 1948 Arab-Israeli war. Perhaps most important, he has
gained international legitimacy.

Palestinian officials said tonight that they had achieved their chief goals for
the summit, reviving a relationship with the United States that has been all but
dead for more than a year, and gaining what they saw as a clear American
commitment to the peace plan. Diplomats who know him say Mr. Abbas understands
he will lose this critical asset, international credibility and support, if he
fails to act against terrorists.

Indeed, the risks to national unity may have been apparent today, but so were
the risks of not risking unity, as demonstrated by the man who was not there:
Mr. Arafat. Mr. Arafat led his people from behind, never completely alienating
any group or excluding any option, including terrorism.

"He wanted national unity," said one diplomat who has studied him closely. "But
you can't have national unity while you have people getting blown up in coffee
shops."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime minister, left, shook
hands yesterday with Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, after their
closing statements at the summit meeting with President Bush at the royal palace
at the Red Sea resort of Aqaba, Jordan. Below, Mr. Sharon showed the effects of
the heat. (Pool photo by Hussein Malla); (Pool photo by Menahem Kahana)(pg. A15)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             509 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rumblings in Iran

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE;  E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 713 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On his way back from a Moscow summit, President Nixon made an overnight stop in
Tehran. The Shah, greeting the White House staff individually, asked if I was
enjoying my stay. I said I wished I could go antique shopping in Ferdowsi
Square, but we had to leave early next morning.

The Shah said imperiously to an aide, "Keep the shops open." And so, after the
state dinner, a bunch of somewhat embarrassed Nixon aides found bleary-eyed
Iranian shopkeepers awaiting us in downtown Tehran.

Then we heard shouting around the corner, and what seemed like shots. Our
minders said the noise came from hooligans, so we shrugged it off. But before
the decade was out, a tide of those demonstrators, conspiring with a network of
mullahs, deposed the Shah and imposed a more malevolent dictatorship.

That's why I do not take lightly reports this week of student protests in Tehran
and Tabriz, followed by the beating of demonstrators by supposed vigilantes.
Only when satellite broadcasts about the beatings from Iranian exiles in Los
Angeles aroused public opinion in Iran did the army belatedly restrain the
government's club-wielding thugs.

Why didn't the ayatollahs order the protesters jailed? Why hasn't the theocratic
regime rounded up the 250 intellectuals who recently dared to state that the
supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was accountable to the people and not
just to God?

The answer is that every segment of Iranian society is split. In labor,
industrial workers fume at jobs lost to outside sanctions while oil workers bask
in the sun of high oil prices. In the military, many air force and navy officers
silently scorn the anti-secular allegiance of the Revolutionary Guard, which is
subdivided into zealots and careerists.

Those splits are aggravated by the resentment of women and the anger of
students, 9 out of 10 of whom cannot get into universities. Clerics are torn as
well, with some disgusted with the high living of others. Voters are tiring of
electing "reformers" to Parliament and getting no reform.

Because resentment is rising in so many segments, authorities cannot "crack
down" (as can North Korea and Cuba) without triggering a general uprising. To
survive, Tehran feels it must whip up hatred of the West, finance terror against
Israel and gain impunity with its own nuclear bomb.

How does America show solidarity with Iran's restive majority without allowing
the ayatollahs tocredibly accuse their internal opposition of being stooges of
the West?

Here's what not to do: don't assume the enemy of our enemy is our friend. The
"People's Mujahedeen," a communist group, broke with the ayatollahs decades ago
and treasonously set up shop under Saddam's protection in Iraq. We just disarmed
thousands of these terrorists (getting no thanks from Tehran), and in Paris this
week Jean-Louis Bruguiere, chief of "la section antiterroriste" rounded up 150
of its leaders (getting effusive thanks from Tehran). We want no part of this
crowd, hated by patriotic Iranians.

Nor should we succumb to the siren song of "engagement" with the phony reform
front. Such a display of Western appeasement would undercut the dissenters and
give the ayatollahs time to complete the nuclear bomb-building that even the
previously complaisant International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors fear is
underway.

Fortunately, engagement advocates have become an endangered species even at the
State Department. Colin Powell is on board, and President Bush's message to
"those courageous souls who speak out for freedom in Iran" hit the right note:
"America stands squarely by their side, and I would urge the Iranian
administration to treat them with the utmost of respect."

His studied avoidance of the disparaging word "regime" signaled that it is
political change that is needed, not regime change. Even in his tougher
statement yesterday about the danger of nukes in the arsenal of the leading
supporter of terrorism -- "we will not tolerate construction of a nuclear
weapon" -- Bush's pronoun "we" referred to consensus of "the international
community."

By breathing on the spark of freedom without blowing too hard, and by leading
the increase of pressure on a crumbling dictatorship, we may be able to limit
the spread of nuclear weapons without having to take them out.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             510 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 23, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

San Francisco Protest Brings Debate on Wages of Din

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1094 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 20


The massive gray Hall of Justice , which stretches the length of a city block on
Bryant Street, is the one-stop-shopping center for law enforcement in this city.

It houses the police department, the district attorney's office, a jail, a
superior court and, on the second floor, the traffic court of Commissioner Paul
Slavit.

Normally, Commissioner Slavit's courtroom would barely warrant mention. But now
it is at the center of a political maelstrom involving issues no less grandiose
than war and peace and crime and punishment.

In its simplest form, the fuss amounts to this: How hard should the authorities
come down on the 3,000 or so people arrested in San Francisco during the antiwar
demonstrations in March?

The answer is not as straightforward as the city's famously tolerant image might
suggest.

Many of the arrests came on March 20, the day after the bombing in Iraq began.
On that day, thousands of protesters flooded San Francisco's financial district
in what would be the most disruptive antiwar action anywhere in the nation. The
police at the time described the city as in a state of "absolute anarchy."

Three months later, some residents remain angry about the disruption and are
demanding that the district attorney's office punish those people who were
arrested in the protest. But others insist the staunchly Democratic city should
stand up to the Bush administration and show solidarity with the antiwar
movement by dropping all the charges.

"I know I can't make everybody happy," said District Attorney Terence Hallinan,
who is being lobbied by both sides. "I long ago figured I can only do what I
think is right."

Though most of those arrested were charged with misdemeanors, Mr. Hallinan has
already reduced most of the charges to infractions, something he said was not
uncommon in such situations. Over the past week or so, the first several hundred
defendants have appeared before Commissioner Slavit.

A veteran of the 1960's protest movement, Mr. Hallinan said he wanted to give
the demonstrators the benefit of the doubt while also avoiding the expense and
hassle of pursuing so many prosecutions. Officials estimate that 2,300 cases
remain in the legal system.

"My policy generally is that the arrest itself in these cases is sufficient
punishment," he said. "Pay whatever the technical violation was, and call it
even."

But it seems Mr. Hallinan miscalculated the mind-set of the current band of
protesters. He also inadvertently touched a sensitive nerve in the city, where
many people viewed the acts of civil disobedience as more rabble-rousing than
free speech.

Far from professing gratitude for the reduced charges, most of the arrested
demonstrators are choosing to fight the infractions, which carry a fine of about
$100. The National Lawyers Guild, which is representing most of the protesters,
has used every legal mechanism available to challenge the cases.

"It would be unethical to pay," said one of the protesters, Fran Peavey, 62, who
was in court today. A writer from San Francisco, Ms. Peavey was arrested in her
wheelchair for blocking Bush Street, her 18th protest-related arrest since 1965,
she said.

"Yes, technically we broke the law, but if some of us started paying the fines,
what would that say to the people who can't afford to? It would keep the poor
people away."

The money question is carrying particular resonance for the city government,
too, because of its budget crisis. As he contemplates what action to take, Mr.
Hallinan said he was painfully aware that a decision to prosecute all 2,300
remaining cases, even in traffic court, would break the bank because most of
those arrested would demand a trial.

If he is forced to try the cases, he said, he will have to ask the Board of
Supervisors for more money.

Mr. Hallinan said he hoped to make a decision in the coming week. His staff is
moving forward, pulling together hundreds of pages of charges to meet
Commissioner Slavit's demand for new paperwork.

So far, Commissioner Slavit has dismissed 144 cases because of insufficient
information in the police reports. He has threatened to throw out hundreds more
because of a technical problem with the prosecutors' filings unless Mr. Hallinan
files the charges anew by Monday.

The technical problem was brought to the court's attention in a motion by one of
the lawyers, Bobbie Stein, who said that the handling of the cases had become so
bogged down in finger pointing and city politics that there was no telling what
might happen next.

"The police department is blaming the district attorney's office, and the
district attorney's office was initially blaming the police department, and now
Hallinan is taking it upon himself to personally blame me because he is
embarrassed by this," Ms. Stein said. "All I did was stand up for these people's
right to demonstrate."

At the same time, Mr. Hallinan is coming under increasing ridicule from the
other side in the debate. His office has been inundated with angry letters and
e-mail messages from residents, business owners and some elected officials who
say he is going too easy on the demonstrators.

"Our association totally supports people's right to free speech, but I think
what we saw with the antiwar protest far exceeded free speech," said Linda
Mjellem, executive director of the Union Square Association, which represents
about 250 businesses and property owners.

In a city where the district attorney's office has often been a political
lightning rod, some of Mr. Hallinan's adversaries, including Mayor Willie L.
Brown Jr., have also jumped to question his hold on the job.

Mr. Hallinan, who is seeking re-election this fall, has often been accused by
his critics of being soft on crime and at loggerheads with the police
department. He is still dealing with the fallout from his decision a few months
ago to indict seven of the department's top leaders, including the chief, in a
conspiracy case. The charges have since been dropped.

"I represent people who live in San Francisco, and they are fed up," Supervisor
Tony Hall said. Mr. Hall is one of the most persistent critics of the protests
and introduced a resolution urging Mr. Hallinan to prosecute those who were
arrested. In a separate resolution, Mr. Hall also called on the city to seek
reimbursement from the protests' organizers for additional expenses incurred by
the city, estimated at $3.5 million for the month of March.

"We have to figure out a way to make those who were arrested pay or be held
accountable for their actions," he said, "or this type of thing is going to go
on and on and on."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: San Francisco police called the March protest "absolute
anarchy." District Attorney Terence Hallinan, a protester in the 1960's himself,
is trying to decide what the prosecutions should be.; Antiwar protesters
arrested in March were among those waiting on Friday for their hearings in
traffic court. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             511 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 9, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hundreds of Afghans Attack Pakistan Embassy in Kabul

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, July 8


Hundreds of Afghans ransacked Pakistan's embassy in Kabul this morning,
shattering windows, breaking down doors and setting the Pakistani flag on fire.

No one was injured in the rampage, but Pakistani officials bitterly accused the
Afghan government of being unable to police its own capital, demanded
compensation and said the embassy would remain closed until further notice.

"Where was the Afghan government?" Rustam Shah Mohmand, Pakistan's ambassador to
Kabul, asked as he stood among shattered windows and overturned tables.

The tension between the countries stems from allegations that Pakistan is
allowing Taliban fighters to use its territory to carry out attacks on American
and Afghan forces in southeastern Afghanistan. There have also been reports of
skirmishes between Afghan and Pakistani forces along the countries' lawless and
disputed border.

Pakistani officials say they have posted 70,000 troops along the border to stop
the incursions, the first time the army has entered the tribal areas. They say
that they have arrested 500 suspected members of Al Qaeda and the Taliban, but
that it is impossible to seal the mountainous border.

The embassy attack came a day after the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai,
criticized comments made by President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan, who said
that Mr. Karzai's government has little control of the country outside Kabul.

The assault began when 500 protesters chanting "death to Pakistan" descended on
the Pakistani Embassy. Afghan officials were aware of the protest, a Western
diplomat said, but apparently assigned no extra policemen. The crowd quickly
overwhelmed the 10 to 15 officers present. As hundreds of looters swarmed the
compound, a dozen Pakistanis cowered in the basement. The ambassador was not
there.

At the heart of the dispute are two divergent views of the situation in
Afghanistan. Officials in Kabul say Afghan and American forces are making steady
progress in countering a low-level insurgency in southeastern Afghanistan. But
officials in Islamabad say lawlessness is spreading, ethnic Pashtuns resent the
American presence and support for the Taliban's strict law-and-order governance
is growing.

In a news conference this afternoon, Mr. Karzai apologized for the attack and
condemned those who carried it out. He promised to call General Musharraf and
apologize and to pay Pakistan compensation.

"Those who did this action today are not enemies of Pakistan," he said. "They
are, in fact, enemies of Afghanistan."

The dispute began last week when General Musharraf said in Germany that a far
larger international force was needed in Afghanistan, where warlords, not Mr.
Karzai's government, controlled most of the country.

The Western diplomat said today that Mr. Karzai was "very incensed" by General
Musharraf's comments.

Mr. Mohmand, the Pakistani ambassador, said General Musharraf was simply trying
to help Afghanistan. Some Western diplomats pointed out that news reports
routinely described Mr. Karzai as largely powerless outside Kabul.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A police officer in Kabul tried to restrain Afghan protesters
from reaching Pakistan's embassy, where windows were shattered and doors broken.
(Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             512 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sharon Meets Norwegian Leader, but Shuns Oslo

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: MOLDE, Norway, July 16


Almost exactly 10 years after Israeli and Palestinian negotiators initialed what
would become known as the Oslo agreement, opening a short-lived period of hope
for peace in the Middle East, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon paid his respects to
Norway today, but pointedly stayed away from Oslo, the capital.

Instead he came to Molde, an isolated city on Norway's ruggedly beautiful
western coast, and spent six hours with Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, far
from the threat of mass protests or too-strong associations with the tattered
peace accord, which Mr. Sharon had fought from the start.

Israeli officials were quoted by Reuters as saying today's visit was meant to
move from the Oslo agreement to Washington's road map to peace, which has been
endorsed by Mr.Sharon and the Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas.

Negotiated secretly in the Norwegian capital and signed on the White House lawn
in 1993, the Oslo accord began to unravel in the mid-1990's in violence and
recrimination.

In Molde, Mr. Sharon deflected reporters' questions with pleasantries about the
glittering Romsdal Fjord and the snow-capped mountains surrounding the pillared
mansion where the two leaders met. About 1,000 protesters, many in town
primarily for a jazz festival, marched and chanted slogans accusing the Israeli
of war crimes, but the police kept them well away from the meeting. There were
no arrests.

Mr. Sharon's chief message was evidently a repetition of what he told Prime
Minister Tony Blair during a recent visit to Britain: that European leaders
should adopt the American-Israeli strategy of shunning Yasir Arafat, long the
Palestinian leader, in favor of the moderate new prime minister, Mr. Abbas.

Mr. Bondevik said he reacted as the British did, declining to help isolate Mr.
Arafat. But he did call Mr. Abbas "the most important negotiating partner in the
time to come" and announced that Mr. Abbas had accepted an invitation to come to
Norway in the last week of August.

Mr. Bondevik also called on Israel to withdraw more troops from the occupied
territories and release more Palestinian prisoners, gestures that he said would
strengthen Mr. Abbas against Palestinian militant groups.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, center left, and Prime
Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik of Norway attended a folk dance performance
yesterday in Molde, where they also discussed Israeli-Palestinian relations.
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             513 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 21, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE WAR: IRAQI UNREST;
In Shiite Holy City of Najaf, A Sudden Anti-U.S. Storm

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1144 words

DATELINE: NAJAF, Iraq, July 20


The cleric and the lieutenant colonel stood just inches apart under the broiling
noon sun today, white turban to camouflage helmet, trading invective about the
deployment of American troops in this holy city.

Behind the American officer, a line of about two dozen marines stood vigilant,
their bayonets newly fixed to their rifles. Behind the cleric, a sweep of
thousands of demonstrators, most of them trucked in from Baghdad, chanting
slogans like "No Americans after today" and "No to America, no to colonialism,
no to tyranny, no to the Devil!"

So lies the suddenly uneasy state of relations between the United States forces
and the younger, more militant clergymen of Iraq's majority Shiite community.

Until now, interactions between the Americans and the Iraqis in Najaf have been
calm, free of the random violence rampant in the country's Sunni heartland.

But a sudden storm erupted on Saturday after Moktada al-Sadr, the scion of a
clan of beloved clerics and the most vocal supporter of Iranian-style theocracy
in Iraq, asserted that American forces were encircling his home. They were bent
on arresting him, his aides announced, after an incendiary sermon on Friday in
which he rejected the American-appointed Governing Council and called for the
formation of an Islamic army.

It was, said Lt. Col. Christopher C. Conlin, the commanding officer here, a
deliberate misunderstanding.

There had indeed been Apache helicopters clattering overhead and extra troops on
the streets, but that was to provide security for a visit by Deputy Defense
Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz, Colonel Conlin said.

The temporary ramping up of the United States presence could not be explained in
advance for security reasons, and afterward the American officer relied on
members of Najaf's City Council to pass the word. He wished the demonstrators
would take their complaints to the new City Council.

The abrupt storm this weekend underscored a point made by a review of the Iraq
reconstruction effort released last week by a panel from the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington. The lack of Iraqis involved
in the reconstruction at all levels, widespread unemployment and woefully
inadequate means of communicating what is happening to the country's 24 million
people have combined to fuel an ever-higher level of frustration and anger about
the American presence.

Men like Mr. Sadr and his followers, determined to harness that frustration to
wrest a greater say in Iraq's future, are stepping into the void.

"They used to think that they could marginalize the Shiites, that we would
accept anything," said Sheik Khalid al-Khatami, an aide to Mr. Sadr, standing on
a balcony beneath the gold dome of the tomb of Imam Ali, the founder of the
Shiite sect, as the clerics whipped up the crowd. "That is a false impression.
Neither the Americans nor any of the foreigners know how strong we are."

Najaf is the home to four respected ayatollahs, the senior Shiite leaders to
whom the faithful look for guidance on virtually all aspects of daily life. The
ayatollahs and their supporters were conspicuously absent from today's events,
because they view Mr. Sadr and his followers as little more than young hotheads
determined to make a name for themselves by stirring up violence against the
occupation.

Mr. Sadr's father, Ayatollah Muhammad Sadiq al-Sadr, was an outspoken defender
of the Shiites before being gunned down in 1999 in a killing attributed to
Saddam Hussein's henchman.

Out of respect for his father and not wanting to increase the younger cleric's
allure, the ayatollahs and other Shiite political groups have mostly remained
silent in public about the situation.

"Moktada Sadr and his supporters are trying to drag us into this kind of
confrontation, this kind of division between Shiites on the street," said a
spokesman for the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, the most
established Shiite group and a participant in the Governing Council.

But even the local Supreme Council office had apparently not gotten word that
the American military movements on Saturday were not reacting to Mr. Sadr's
Friday sermon. "The American policy should be calmer; they should not react so
hastily to what he said," the spokesman added.

He and others say that much of the new militancy in the Shiite community is
being pushed by former Baathists, happy to find any channel they can to create
unrest.

Support for the demonstrators came from Iran, too. The protest opened with a
message of support from Ayatollah Kathim al-Husseini al-Haeri, an Iraqi
clergyman in the holy Iranian city of Qum. Members of the Governing Council were
all American agents, he said in a message read aloud to the crowd, and the
clerics were the legitimate rulers.

Random comments on the street appeared to show little support for the
demonstration on Saturday among the people in Najaf itself, and even two
clergyman wandering through the shrine were wondering what all the fuss was
about.

"What do we need an Islamic army for?" said Riad Abu al-Awady, a 23-year-old
Najaf resident. "Many members of my family fought in Saddam's wars and they are
all dead. What Iraqis need is water, electricity, security, and we want to
work."

Outside the headquarters of the United States forces here, on the old university
campus, a young clergyman named Aws al-Khafaji, a member of Mr. Sadr's circle,
made fiery speeches against the American military. He said the Americans were
ruling through a "sissy" council, despoiling the holy city of Najaf with their
presence, and spreading Western corruption.

Then he and a few others walked forward a few times to confront Colonel Conlin,
at one point handing over a list of demands -- including one that American
forces leave the city immediately.

"He is frustrated because this city is peaceful and he has a low support base
here," the officer said about Mr. Sadr. "This is the city of ayatollahs, and
this is just a young, inexperienced guy."

But the young guy had deployed thousands of angry demonstrators on the
Americans' doorstep. Colonel Conlin brought up a loudspeaker system of his own,
addressing the crowd through an interpreter. His soldiers did not try to
surround Mr. Sadr's house, he said, and they had no interest in arresting him.

The colonel said the unruly demonstrators were blaspheming in the city of
Abraham, and he warned that they must disband or be considered a threat to the
American forces.

Much of what the officer said was lost in the chanting of the crowd, and some of
the translation was poor -- the Arabic version suggested that the crowd must
show respect or be considered a threat.

But the clergymen, after reluctantly agreeing that both sides would air their
viewpoint before the city's most prominent ayatollah, took their supporters
home. There would, they said, be another demonstration on Monday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraqi protesters, above, pushed toward American marines
yesterday in Najaf. The protest erupted a day after clergymen claimed that
soldiers had tried to surround a prominent Shiite leader. Clerics, speaking to
protesters from atop a mosque, below, demanded an end to the American
occupation. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) Map of Iraq
highlighting Najaf: Najaf is a center of Shiite influence and is near vital
river crossings.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             514 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Israelis Drive Back Protesters Cutting Into Border Fence

BYLINE:  By GREG MYRE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 28


Israeli troops fired tear gas and rubber-coated bullets today to drive away
several hundred Palestinians, Israelis and foreign activists who were cutting
through part of Israel's security fence in the northern West Bank.

The fence, a sensitive subject between Israel and Palestinian authorities, is
expected to be on the agenda on Tuesday when Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of
Israel meets President Bush at the White House. Israel says the fence is
essential to prevent Palestinian attacks, while the president has been critical
of the fence's route, which juts into the West Bank.

In northern Israel today, authorities found the body of a missing Israeli
soldier in an olive grove near an Arab village, and the police called it a
"terrorist killing." The slain soldier, Oleg Shaichat, 20, was the first member
of the Israeli security forces to be killed since Palestinian factions declared
a truce a month ago.

His disappearance while hitchhiking in uniform in northern Israel on July 21
touched off an extensive search, and volunteers found the body in a field near
the Arab town of Kafr Kanna, not far from where the soldier was last seen. He
was in uniform but his rifle was missing, the police said.

The apparent kidnapping and the killing of a lone soldier inside Israel was
unusual. But the military said it was concerned that Palestinian factions were
planning to seize soldiers as possible bargaining chips to win the release of
Palestinian prisoners.

No group has claimed responsibility. However, Gil Kleiman, a police spokesman,
said that "from the evidence we have, there's no question we are talking about a
terrorist killing." He declined to speculate on who might be behind the attack.

Violence is down sharply since the truce declaration. Two Israeli civilians and
a foreign worker were killed by Palestinians before the death of the Israeli
soldier. Five Arabs have been shot dead by the Israeli security forces.

During the 34 months of fighting, the combined death toll has averaged close to
100 per month.

At the protest over the fence, the demonstrators broke off locks on a gate and
began cutting through the wire fence near the West Bank village of Anin. The
barrier separates village residents from their farm fields, and Palestinians
said the gates leading to the fields have not been opened on a regular basis.

Seven foreign activists were injured, according to the International Solidarity
Movement, a pro-Palestinian group made up mostly of young Westerners. The group
said it had helped organize the action.

In the days before Mr. Sharon's White House meeting, Israeli officials
emphasized the need to build the fence.

"We think the security fence we are building now is very important," said Silvan
Shalom, Israel's foreign minister. "We think it prevents the extremists from
destroying the peace process."

Mr. Shalom spoke after a meeting with Tom DeLay, the Texas Republican and House
majority leader, who is visiting Israel.

Mr. DeLay, a strong backer of Israel, has expressed doubts about the Middle East
peace initiative, which calls for the establishment of a Palestinian state as
part of a comprehensive political settlement. He said the emphasis should be on
fighting Palestinian terrorism.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jews yesterday carried the body of Oleg Shaichat, an Israeli
soldier apparently kidnapped and killed in northern Israel. (Photo by Agence
France-Presse); Pro-Palestinian activists tried to break through a gate
yesterday in a fence between Israeli and Arab areas. (Photo by Associated Press)
Map of Israel highlighting Kafr Kanna: An Israeli soldier's body was found
yesterday near Kafr Kanna.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             515 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTER THE WAR: ENERGY;
Riots Continue Over Fuel Crisis In Iraq's South

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 10


Riots over severe fuel shortages continued today in Basra, Iraq's second-largest
city, as some officials who have studied the matter warned that fuel shortages
could recur in other parts of the country.

United Nations officials said there was a "near certainty" that Iraq would face
winter shortages of kerosene, a vital fuel for heating homes in northern Iraq,
because of the same refinery problems that have led to the gasoline shortages.

Officials of the civilian administration here have begun to shift the refinery
mix to increase production of kerosene, but tonight officials said they did not
know whether the process of stockpiling the kerosene needed for winter use had
begun.

A private security guard in Basra employed by the civilian authority was shot
and killed by unidentified assailants today, the second day of rioting over
gasoline shortages.

Motorists in Basra have faced fuel lines several miles long and waits of more
than 24 hours. Black-market prices for gasoline there have soared as high as
1,000 dinars, about 60 cents a liter, or 50 times the official price. That is
also 10 times the black-market price in Baghdad, where fuel lines have gotten
much longer in recent days, United Nations officials monitoring the fuel
situation said.

The Basra fuel shortages have caused power failures at hospitals and harmed aid
efforts, American officials have said.

In addition, the United Nations Joint Logistics Center said the current shortage
of liquefied petroleum gas, an important cooking fuel, was a nationwide "crisis"
that was "almost certain to continue," even as officials hope that new imports
and production from a plant in southern Iraq will increase supply. Gas canisters
that normally cost 250 dinars have been fetching up to 4,000 dinars, or about
$2.40.

Tonight, a spokesman for the civilian administration in Basra declined to say
whether the killing of the security guard, a Nepalese citizen, was connected to
the fuel riots.

British officials said that four separate riots broke out at gasoline stations
today in northern Basra, and that shots were fired at British soldiers. No
soldiers were wounded by the gunfire, but three soldiers were hurt by stones
thrown at them, said Squadron Leader Lynda Sawers, a spokeswoman for the British
military. Iraqi civilians were also reported to have been shot during the riots.

Oil production is not the problem behind the shortages, as Iraq's oil fields,
even in their current poor condition, produce far more oil daily than is needed
for domestic consumption. Instead, the shortages have been caused by factors
mostly related to problems with the electricity grid and the woeful state of the
refinery in Basra, United Nations and occupation officials said.

Those factors, they said, include looting and sabotage, a shortage of the fuels
that power generators that supply electricity to refineries and the dilapidated
and obsolete condition of the refineries. Compared with modern refineries, they
produce proportionately far more heavy fuel oil than the gasoline, diesel fuel
and kerosene that are in such demand.

In Basra, all four primary electricity transmission lines supplying the refinery
have been cut by saboteurs, said occupation officials, who noted that all of
those factors have been worsened by increased demand caused by the hot weather.

According to United Nations estimates, Iraq's three major refineries -- at
Basra, Bayji and Baghdad -- have been producing an estimated 18 million to 22
million liters a day of gasoline, kerosene and diesel fuel combined. But to meet
demand, they need to produce between 37 million and 40 million liters. There are
about four liters to a gallon.

Occupation officials said smuggling had worsened the problem. They are cracking
down on tanker trucks and barges secretly taking fuel out of the country,
including the seizure this weekend of a ship that officials said was carrying at
least 1,100 metric tons of diesel fuel.

United Nations officials said the problem in Basra was also caused by
"inequitable" distribution plans that had sent large quantities of diesel
produced in Basra north to Baghdad and other locations. Similarly, the United
States Agency for International Development placed some blame on what it
described as "the majority of fuel going to Baghdad." Occupation officials said
they have been trying to spread the available fuels and electricity evenly
throughout the country.

The fuel shortages in southern Iraq have led to problems far more dire than
gasoline lines. According to a report issued Wednesday by the Agency for
International Development, the shortages "are threatening security and some
humanitarian operations." They "are endangering hospital patients" in hospitals
that depend on generators, the agency said, adding that "cold storage for
medicines and vaccination programs are also affected."

Occupation officials said that in addition to the smuggling crackdown and the
increase in kerosene production, they were working to install new generators for
the Basra refinery and to repair damage to power lines and pylons caused by
looting and sabotage. An official said tonight that if shortages persisted,
officials would consider increasing gasoline imports and beginning significant
imports of kerosene and diesel.

Officials said they were transferring to the Basra area some gasoline from
military forces as well as at least 25 million liters seized from smugglers.
They added that refinery production levels and other fuel data were discussed
each morning in meetings with the top civilian official, L. Paul Bremer III.
They also emphasized that much of the problem stemmed from poor maintenance and
underinvestment during Saddam Hussein's rule.

"I'm not saying there will be no shortages in the future," said Charles Heatly,
the allied occupation spokesman. "But I'm saying we are taking significant steps
for the short term, the medium term and the long term." He also took issue with
the United Nations projection on kerosene, saying it was "a little much" to say
now that shortages would occur in the winter.

Tonight, another occupation official said the kerosene supply depended on
whether the refineries had adequate electricity.

Summer demand for kerosene is about six million liters a day, according to the
United Nations. But that demand will grow to more than 30 million liters a day
during the coldest parts of the winter. To meet that demand, Iraq needs to have
500 million liters of kerosene in storage in about three months, United Nations
officials said.

But they said that kerosene stockpiling is behind schedule and that the "current
high level of demand for diesel may prevent kerosene production needed for
future consumption in winter."

An occupation official said tonight that to increase kerosene stocks, officials
might consider increasing production relative to diesel, and then possibly
importing some diesel.

Some United Nations officials are also concerned that the occupation powers
intend to shift responsibility for buying imported gasoline and liquefied
petroleum gas to the marketing arm of the Iraqi Oil Ministry. Currently,
gasoline production is about eight million liters a day at Iraq's three major
refineries, and an additional six million liters are imported daily. But some
United Nations officials question whether the oil-marketing organization would
be given enough cash by the civilian administration to acquire gasoline, or
whether it would be forced to barter with its surplus heavy fuel oil.

John Levins, the head of fuel planning for the United Nations Joint Logistics
Center, which monitors the fuel situation and advises the United Nations'
various arms, said: "There is no doubt the coalition has the best interests of
the Iraqi people at heart, but if they cut off coalition imports of gasoline and
don't alleviate the diesel situation before Iraqi refineries are able to provide
for the needs of their own people, there will be a fuel-induced humanitarian
crisis in the coming months."

In an interview tonight, Mr. Heatly said that the civilian administration would
like to see the state oil-marketing organization take over some responsibility
for gasoline imports, but that nothing would be done to adversely affect supply.
Later tonight, another official said that work had begun in conjunction with the
state organization to secure imports, but that no change was planned in that
relationship anytime soon.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Iraqi yesterday carried away a man who had been shot during
rioting over fuel shortages in Basra. It was unclear who had shot the man.
(Photo by Reuters)(pg. A7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             516 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Eyes on the White House, Kerry Keeps Focus on Vietnam

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1354 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Aug. 25


As he criticized the Bush administration's handling of the war in Iraq, Senator
John Kerry assured thousands of fellow V.F.W. members today that should he
become commander in chief, "I won't just bring to that profound responsibility
the perspective of sitting in the situation room -- I'll also bring the
perspective of someone who's fought on the front lines."

Next week, when he formally announces his presidential campaign in Charleston,
S.C., Mr. Kerry will stand in front of a World War II aircraft carrier that was
used in Vietnam and beside crew members from his tour of duty as a patrol boat
officer in the Mekong Delta, where he won the Silver Star, the Bronze Star and
three Purple Hearts.

Wherever Senator Kerry goes these days, he talks about his war record. In doing
so, Mr. Kerry is identifying his campaign with his service in Vietnam more
closely than others who have run, like Senator John McCain and former Vice
President Al Gore. So far, he has skirted the controversies that surrounded that
war, which he fought in and then marched against, as he uses it to present
himself as a battle-hardened Democrat who can handle the national security
challenges that each party believes will be central to next year's election. He
is also seeking to show that he can withstand the kinds of attacks that
Republicans have successfully made on Democrats in past elections over issues of
national security.

Mr. Kerry's advisers say he is still introducing himself to the countless voters
who do not remember him from 1971, when he wore his ribbons on his Navy fatigues
and testified against the war on television, instantly becoming a national
celebrity. They say it is an obvious way for him to reach out to veterans, a
large constituency on whose behalf he has worked for many years in the Senate.
And they say his constant recitation of his wartime experience is only natural
in the world after Sept. 11, where national security has become a threshold
issue and where some say the problems and perils of rebuilding Iraq are
reminiscent of the quagmire that Vietnam became.

Above all, though, his allies are convinced that Mr. Kerry's wartime record will
inoculate him against Republican attacks like those that depicted Michael S.
Dukakis, his boss when Mr. Kerry was lieutenant governor of Massachusetts, as
weak on national security.

"Karl Rove will dismember every Democratic candidate based on their record of
service," Henry G. Cisneros, the former San Antonio mayor and cabinet secretary,
said today at a breakfast with Mr. Kerry's local supporters. "He'll say they're
not tough enough. They cannot do that to Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts."

Similarly, Chris Lehane, an adviser to the Kerry campaign, said that its
Internet traffic had spiked in April after Mr. Kerry defended his right to
criticize the Bush administration by saying he had "fought for and bled for" the
right to speak out.

"I think Democrats relish and revel in the idea that they all have a candidate
who has the military background that John McCain has, who can then take it to
Bush -- that he can directly challenge Bush, Cheney and the rest of the
Republican gang who think they have sole and exclusive authority over
patriotism."

Yet dwelling on one's war record carries with it potential pitfalls, as Senator
McCain himself warned this year. "I think Americans want modesty," he told U.S.
News & World Report in March, "and if it appears as if you're trying to use some
past accomplishment, particularly one in combat, to further your own political
ambitions, it's a little dangerous because the whole reason for your serving in
the military is to ensure the safety and future of others and not yourself."

Another Vietnam veteran now in the Senate, Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska,
echoed that advice. "It's better not to talk too much about your military
record," Mr. Hagel said today. "You should probably play that experience down to
some extent -- not run away from it, but don't talk too much about it. The media
will draw the comparisons and distinctions anyway."

But former Senator Max Cleland, the Georgia Democrat and wounded Vietnam
veteran, argued that the country needed Mr. Kerry's experience. "In an era when
we have pretenders who say 'Bring them on' and all that stuff, you need a person
who understands war," Mr. Cleland said. "John's been there, and he has a few
holes in his T-shirt to prove it."

Far from merely immunizing himself to attack, Mr. Kerry appears to be using his
own record to highlight the shortcomings of his opponents in the Democratic
primary, none of whom saw combat.

In a brief interview today, he stopped short of saying military or wartime
service should be a prerequisite for the presidency, offering that a senator
like Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, had he run for president, would
have been qualified by virtue of his "broad foreign policy experience."

"But," Mr. Kerry added, apparently alluding to his rivals, "measured against
people who have no experience, or very little of it, it's important."

He also said that his Vietnam experience was of special relevance in watching
the rebuilding effort under way in Iraq: "Carrying a gun in a hostile territory,
getting shot at from both sides? You bet it brings a perspective. Trying to
distinguish between friend and foe? Knowing the difficulty of winning hearts and
minds? That adds a whole other experience."

While Senator McCain's war record was widely known when he made his own
presidential bid in 2000, it was not the center of his campaign, said Gary C.
Jacobson, a political science professor at the University of California at San
Diego. "McCain's strategy, that he was the reformist, was the horse he was
riding, it wasn't his Vietnam service," Mr. Jacobson said.

And 2000 was a vastly different context, he added; "if he were running now, we
probably would hear more about his war record than we did then."

The difference is Sept. 11, said Bob Kerrey, the former Nebraska senator who
also fought in Vietnam, and whose battlefield experience came back to haunt him
when accusations arose that his team of Navy Seals knowingly killed civilians in
a 1969 raid in Vietnam.

"Democrats understand that unlike in '96 or 2000 or even in '92, one of the
things Americans are looking at is how well can you do the job of commander in
chief," Mr. Kerrey said today from New York. "It's become a part of the
assessment process. It wasn't there before. I think Bill Clinton would've faced
a much different opponent in George Bush in 1992 if the U.S. had been attacked
by terrorists even in the fall of '89. He would've had to prove he could be a
better commander in chief."

An open question is just how Mr. Kerry's role in opposing the war will play,
more than three decades later. Though Senator Kerry says he is confident that
"most people have come to the conclusion that the war was a mistake," he said
the attention to the protest movement could rekindle a debate that has never
entirely died out.

"But he's got credibility on both sides of the argument," Mr. Kerrey said, for
having fought despite his opposing the war.

It is also possible that that seemingly contradictory stance might be used
against Senator Kerry, if only to foreshadow a recurring criticism of him as a
senator: that he likes to straddle both sides of an issue.

But Douglas Brinkley, the historian and author of a forthcoming biography of
Senator Kerry, said Republicans would be unwise to attack him on that ground.
"As soon as you're arguing about John Kerry's war record, you're on his turf,"
Mr. Brinkley said.

"When you get into the Kerry story, the fact that they were sending 50-foot
aluminum boats up canals along the Cambodian border to get shot at, it's very
similar to Iraq, where every other day, somebody gets picked off," he said.
"Clearly we were the invader in a very foreign culture, and we had no real exit
strategy except Vietnamization. If our exit strategy from Iraq is Iraqization --
here, Kerry, who knows what it's like to be shot up in a war that Americans
forgot about, is a pretty good messenger to talk about the arrogance of power."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry spoke of his military experience yesterday
in an address to the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in San Antonio. (Photo
by Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             517 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 26, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Demonstrators Demand U.S. Withdraw Troops From Iraq

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU; Carolyn Marshall in San Francisco and Chris Dixon in
Laguna Beach contributed to this article.

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25


In the largest antiwar demonstration since President Bush declared an end to
active combat in Baghdad, more than 10,000 people marched through the streets of
the capital on Saturday to demand the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq.

Many of the same people gathered here months ago to urge the White House not to
go to war. The demonstrators reassembled here in the shadow of the Washington
Monument to let the president know they remain deeply opposed to the military's
continued presence in Iraq.

"Don't give Bush 87 billion dollars -- don't give him 87 cents," implored the
Rev. Al Sharpton, a Democratic candidate for president, referring to the
administration's spending plan for military aid and reconstruction in Iraq and
Afghanistan. "Give our troops a ride home."

The demonstration borrowed heavily from the imagery of 1960's peace protests
over Vietnam, as young people in tie-dyed shirts and bandanas waved placards
bearing peace signs and exhorted the White House to "make love, not war."

The Bush administration has made clear that it has no intention of pulling out
of Iraq and that it is working to secure billions of dollars in international
support for the Iraqi reconstruction effort. In recent weeks, the administration
also has begun an aggressive effort to turn around rising public concerns about
Iraq by publicizing positive strides it says the media has failed to report.

"The president respects the opinion of those who protest and exercise their
democratic rights," Jimmy Orr, a White House spokesman, said on Saturday of the
demonstrators. But he added that "the president has been very clear about the
reasons for our involvement and the need to protect our country."

Organizers in Washington said that 100,000 people took part in the rally. But a
close inspection put the number who marched past the White House at about 10,000
to 15,000 people, with about 200 to 300 demonstrators a minute passing an
observation point during the march's half-hour peak. The police gave no official
crowd count but noted that the permits for the event anticipated a crowd of
about 35,000 demonstrators.

Organizers in Washington said that more than 150 cities were represented at the
demonstration. Joint protests also were held in several dozen cities in the
United States, Mexico and Europe.

In San Francisco, organizers estimated several thousand protesters came to the
plaza near City Hall and then marched to Jefferson Square Park.

Marchers in the decidedly mature San Francisco crowd said that unlike earlier
"stop the war" rallies, the focus had now turned to bringing troops home. Amid
placards reading "No Blood for Oil" were signs with the latest antiwar
sentiments: "Bring Them Home Alive."

That was the message on a black and white poster carried by Paul Shumett of Palo
Alto. Mr. Shumett, 56, said: "They said the war was over but more people are
being killed now than before. This war was wrong from the beginning. It seemed a
Hatfield versus McCoy war, like a family feud so President Bush could vindicate
his father."

Also on Saturday, in Oceanside, Calif., an estimated 10,000 marines and sailors
from the First Marine Expeditionary Force marched in the Defenders of Freedom
parade, which honored troops who fought in Iraq. Area news organizations
estimated that 80,000 people watched the parade.

Steven Jepsen, city manager of Oceanside, said the parade was the largest to
ever pass through the city.

"It was really emotional for the people up there," he said. "This was one of
those parades that for the kids here who were 10 or 12 years old, they'll look
back and remember this when they're 50."

Elden Montagne, 21, who traveled to Washington from Vermont with a couple of
friends, was making memories of a different sort.

"It's just cool when people come together like this," he said of the antiwar
demonstration. "It shows the rest of the world that we're thinking about this
stuff and not just going along with it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             518 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Critics Mobilize and London Police Brace for Bush's Visit

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 5


President Bush, who has been shielded from protests in recent travels, arrives
in Britain on a state visit in two weeks, and the police here are weighing how
to control promised street demonstrations without resorting to crowd control
measures that could be seen as curbing free expression.

"There will be substantial demonstrations over President Bush's visit -- as much
as 50,000 to 60,000 people," Sir John Stevens, the Scotland Yard chief, told the
Police Complaints Authority. "Apart from ensuring his safety, which is our
primary concern, we have to ensure the demonstrations are allowed to take place
in the normal way we do in this democracy."

Mr. Bush is the least popular American president in memory with Britons, and
Prime Minister Tony Blair has been castigated by critics as the president's
"poodle" for being Mr. Bush's loyal ally and fighting an unpopular United
States-led war in Iraq.

"A central problem for Bush in Britain is that while he is greeted with wary
respect at 10 Downing Street, his unilateralism and folksy Texas style don't go
down well with the chattering classes, who regard him as exceedingly dangerous
and something of a buffoon," said Anthony King, professor of government at Essex
University.

Mr. King said that while Mr. Bush profits from appearing with Mr. Blair, the
president's presence is a liability for Mr. Blair.

"Bush's visit will remind people, and not just the members of the chattering
classes, of what Blair has done that they dislike most," he said, "namely,
joining the United States in the war in Iraq."

On his recent visit to Australia, another ally of the United States during the
Iraqi war, Mr. Bush left after 21 hours and was whisked down roads clear of
ordinary people. He avoided Sydney, where tens of thousands had come out to
protest the war earlier this year, in favor of Canberra, the less contentious
capital city.

The visit to London is certain to meet protests from militants representing a
wide range of causes, who are expected to congregate here. "Many groups and
activists are uniting to make London inhospitable for Bush," the Web site for
Global Resistance predicts. "We need to make the place as unwelcome as
possible."

The London police were harshly criticized in 1999 when they cracked down on
actions against the visiting Chinese president, Jiang Zemin, and a Scotland Yard
spokesman said that in light of that episode, the police were now being
counseled to make sure policing was "appropriate, relevant and proportionate."

Ghada Razuki, spokeswoman for the Stop the War Coalition, said that while the
police were restricting access to the government center, they were raising no
objections to plans for large street protests and a demonstration in London's
traditional forum of dissent, Trafalgar Square.

"The police have said to us directly that it is our democratic right to march,
and that they want to uphold that," Ms. Razuki said.

During Mr. Bush's trip to Asia in October, both the agenda and the security
arrangements assured that he saw few protesters. He met Indonesian leaders on
Bali, a Hindu-dominated resort island where anti-American feeling does not run
as high as in Jakarta, the capital of what is the world's most populous Muslim
nation. In Manila, demonstrators were kept far from Mr. Bush, and his arrival at
the Philippine Congress was delayed until a large crowd could be dispersed.

In Britain, Mr. Bush will travel by helicopter and limousine and is unlikely to
confront protesters personally, but their presence will be far more visible than
on his Asian swing.

"We want to make sure that the biggest photo opportunities are ones of streets
filled with protesters," Ms. Razuki said.

Mr. Bush will arrive in London the evening of Nov. 18 and begin the public part
of his state visit the next morning with a formal reception followed by a speech
in an as yet undisclosed public hall in London before an audience of
dignitaries. The queen will give a banquet in his honor at Buckingham Palace
that night. He will leave on Nov. 21 after meetings with Mr. Blair.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             519 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 18, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Blair Says Bush's State Visit Comes at 'the Right Time'

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 17


Prime Minister Tony Blair on Monday dismissed antiwar protesters' criticism of
the state visit this week by President Bush as peace demonstrations got under
way and the police tightened security around London.

"I just want to say how strongly I believe that it is indeed the right time for
the president of the United States to come here to this country," Mr. Blair told
the annual convention of the Confederation of British Industry in Birmingham.

Citing recent bomb attacks in Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Iraq, Mr. Blair said,
"This is the right moment for us to stand firm with the United States of America
in defeating terrorism, wherever it is, and delivering us safely from what I
genuinely believe to be the security threat of the 21st century."

In comments that drew loud applause from the business audience, he said, "Now is
not the time to waver, now is the time to see it through."

Mr. Bush is to arrive Tuesday evening at Heathrow Airport, where he will be met
by Prince Charles, then flown by helicopter to Buckingham Palace, where he and
his wife, Laura, will stay during the four-day visit.

He was invited by Queen Elizabeth II, on Mr. Blair's advice, two years ago, well
in advance of the invasion of Iraq that will be at the center of the two
leaders' conversations and that has provoked antiwar protests expected to bring
out more than 60,000 people.

In London on Monday, roads were blocked and extra police officers checked
arrivals at air terminals, ports and Waterloo Station, where Eurostar trains
arrive from Belgium and France. Scotland Yard said it would have 14,000 police
officers on the capital's streets, nearly three times the normal complement.

A scheduled week of protests led by the Stop the War Coalition -- organizers of
a million-member anti-invasion march to Hyde Park in February -- began Monday
with Ron Kovic, the American Vietnam War veteran who uses a wheelchair and who
inspired the film "Born on the Fourth of July" leading activists in presenting a
petition to Downing Street officials saying Mr. Bush was not welcome here.

Protest leaders gained police permission on Monday to route their main march to
Trafalgar Square on Thursday by the Houses of Parliament. Deputy Assistant
Commissioner Andy Trotter said the police had reversed an earlier stance because
of organizers' assurances of violence-free protests and promises of stewards to
help officers.

Mr. Bush addressed the protesters in a series of interviews from Washington,
saying they were lucky to live in a country "where people are free to say
anything." Talking to Sir David Frost on the BBC, the president said: "I
understand you don't like war, and neither do I. But I hope you understand that
I have learned the lessons of 11 September 2001, and that terrorists declared
war on the United States of America and war on people that love freedom."

Laura Bush, interviewed by another well-known British newsman, Sir Trevor
McDonald of ITV News, defended her husband's "wrenching" decision to go to war.
She said, "Certainly the United States doesn't want war, but it's our
responsibility -- all of us -- as civilized freedom-loving and peace-loving
people to try and advance peace and we can't live in a world with terror."

During his stay, Mr. Bush will take part in ceremonial events, including a royal
banquet, at Buckingham Palace and deliver a speech on the trans-Atlantic
alliance in the ornate Banqueting Hall of the Whitehall government center. He
will lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Warrior and meet relatives of
British victims of the Sept. 11 attacks in New York and families of some of the
54 British dead in the war.

On Thursday he is to hold talks with Mr. Blair and joins him in a news
conference before attending a lunch prepared by Nigella Lawson, the food writer
and host of television cooking shows. That night Mr. Bush is the host of a
return banquet for Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip at the official residence
of the American ambassador, William Farish.

On Friday he is to accompany the prime minister to his parliamentary district of
Sedgefield in northeastern England for lunch with local residents before flying
back to Washington.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman protesting against the state visit of President Bush,
which begins today, clung to the front gate of Buckingham Palace last night.
(Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             520 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A REGION INFLAMED: PROTEST;
Marchers In London Denounce Bush Visit

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 708 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 20


Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Trafalgar Square cheered and whistled
Thursday as a papier-mache effigy of President Bush, painted gold to resemble
the toppled statue of Saddam Hussein, was yanked to the ground at a peaceful
rally.

Marching their way through the heart of the city as dusk settled over Big Ben,
the protesters expressed their anger over Mr. Bush's state visit, his policy on
Iraq and his close alliance with Prime Minister Tony Blair.

The protest, which Scotland Yard said drew 110,000 and the organizers say
attracted 200,000, was one of the biggest-ever midweek demonstrations in London.
The police lined the streets along the march's route to ensure order, and they
largely succeeded.

Mr. Bush, who is staying at Buckingham Palace and attended a state dinner on
Wednesday night with Queen Elizabeth, is expected to return home on Friday.

Despite gray skies, traffic jams and the demands of the work day, a broad
cross-section of people turned up for the march, organized by the Stop the War
Coalition, which also mobilized a mass protest in February. Grandmothers with
canes, parents with children in strollers, high school students, women in
business suits, as well as button-bedecked antiwar demonstrators gathered elbow
to elbow in Trafalgar Square to voice their disapproval of Mr. Bush and his
administration's foreign policies.

The march was headed by a group of Americans, led by Ron Kovic, the Vietnam War
veteran who was the inspiration for the movie "Born on the Fourth of July."

Protesters, many of whom said they had a long list of complaints against Mr.
Bush, expressed particular disdain for his motives for war (oil and big
business, they concluded) and noted the elusiveness of evidence of
unconventional weapons in Iraq.

"I'm angry over all the lies and deceits that have been told by Blair and Bush
over weapons of mass destruction," said Sally Sanderson, 52, a teacher and a
first-time protester. "And I'm angry Bush came. I don't like our prime minister
getting as close to Bush as he is."

A few protesters likened the state visit to "rubbing salt in the wound" of the
people of Britain.

"But this is not an anti-American demonstration at all," Mrs. Sanderson hastened
to add, as did many other protesters. "It is anti-Bush and anti-aggression."

In fact, a few protesters said they were simply doing what did not seem to them
permissible in America these days.

"It feels as though people in America are not allowed to express themselves in
the same way," said Mary Nockles, 23, an administrator for an arts company. "In
America, it's a load of ticker tape and people paid to smile for the president.
He shouldn't expect to be greeted here the way he usually is."

Mike Wayne, who attended the rally with his son Jake, 5, explained why he was
demonstrating: "It's just the hypocrisy. They supported Saddam, and then when it
no longer suited their interests, they got rid of him, and on spurious grounds."

But in light of the fact that Mr. Hussein was widely reviled by his own people,
do most Iraqis really care about motive?

"They may not care about motive, whatever means necessary," Mr. Wayne said. "But
what is happening today, the chaos, shows that it does matter."

News of Thursday's bombings in Istanbul -- which killed more than two dozen
people, including Britain's consul general, and wounded hundreds of others --
appeared to galvanize the protesters' opposition to the continuing operation in
Iraq.

If anything, many protesters said repeatedly, the war on Iraq created more
instability in an already volatile region.

"Nothing could make terrorism more likely than this unprecedented attack on
Iraq," said Margaret O'Shea, 70. "I think it makes it worse."

Some said they feared that it would be only a matter of time before terrorists
struck in Britain. "I worry about it all the time, that Al Qaeda will target
London," said Camilla Sanderson, 18, a student who attended the rally with her
mother, adding that "I think about it when I'm going to school" on the subway.

Some protesters said they hoped this would be the last state visit for Mr. Bush.
"It's absolutely disgusting, the thought of him being in Buckingham Palace,"
said Judith Thomas, 66, who sat with her cane. "The queen should have refused."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An effigy of President Bush was pulled down in London yesterday
as tens of thousands of demonstrators gathered in Trafalgar Square to protest
his state visit. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             521 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secessionists From Georgia Hold Talks With Russia

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia, Dec. 1


The leaders of three secessionist regions in Georgia have been meeting with
Russian officials in Moscow, raising questions here about Russia's intentions
and concerns about possible instability.

"When such meetings are conducted without notifying Georgia's central
authorities, which were ignored, Tbilisi is, naturally, very irritated," the
interim Georgian president, Nino Burdzhanadze, said Saturday.

Only a week ago, the Russian foreign minister, Igor S. Ivanov, helped broker a
peaceful transfer of power in this former Soviet republic.

The Russians have sent mixed signals in recent days, saying they want to help
stabilize Georgia but questioning the legitimacy of the new leadership. It came
to power through what it calls a revolution when Eduard A. Shevardnadze was
forced from the presidency by huge peaceful demonstrations. Georgia has
announced that a presidential election will be held on Jan. 4.

But Russia has voiced concern about American backing for what was the
opposition. While Mr. Shevardnadze was once a member of the Soviet Politburo,
his likely successor, Mikhail Saakashvili, studied law in the United States.

"Time will show whose interests will be guiding the new Georgian leadership --
the interests of the United States or the Georgian people," said Sergei
Prikhodko, a deputy presidential chief of staff in Moscow, the Interfax news
agency reported.

On Monday, Ms. Burdzhanadze met with Mr. Ivanov at an international conference
in the Netherlands, after which the Russian foreign minister said both nations
looked forward to resolving their problems and improving relations.

Ghia Nodia, a leading Georgian political analyst, said it was not yet clear
which path Russia would take in its relations with Georgia, whose past relations
with Russia have been, in the words of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia,
"very complicated."

Russia could choose to enlarge on the statesman's role it played in the
transition of power, positioning itself as the international expert on the
affairs of the Caucasus, said Mr. Nodia, who heads an independent Georgian
policy institute, the Caucasus Institute for Peace, Democracy and Development.

"But if Russia follows its usual paranoia about America and its usual instinct
to use the internal problems of Georgia to apply pressure," he said, "it could
try to keep Georgia unstable."

The three separatist regions already cause a degree of instability. All look to
Moscow for support, and the Kremlin could use its influence to calm or
complicate the situation.

Two, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, have behaved like separate states for a decade,
since they broke from Georgia with covert Russian backing. Neither is recognized
internationally. They border on Russia and for the most part are not ethnically
Georgian.

Abkhazia, on the Black Sea, broke away in 1993 after a 13-month war in which
10,000 people were killed. Its prime minister, Raul Khadzhimba, says that of
320,000 people living in the region, 120,000 are Russian citizens.

In Moscow, he said his armed forces stand ready to repel any Georgian attack. He
also said the Russian base on his territory should stay to guard Abkhazia's de
facto autonomy.

South Ossetia has sought to unite with the adjoining Russian republic of North
Ossetia, which was separated from it by Stalin. Its president, Eduard Koity,
said 60 percent of its people carried Russian passports.

The most restive and potentially active of the leaders of these regions is Aslan
Abashidze, who recently proclaimed himself president of the third secessionist
area, Adzharia, which has not declared independence but has operated as an
autonomous region on the Black Sea coast.

Mr. Abashidze, who gave last-minute help to Mr. Shevardnadze in a failed
tactical move, is now struggling to maintain his fief, having closed its border
with Georgia and declared a state of emergency. "There can be no discussion of
contacting those who have taken power unconstitutionally," he said after Mr.
Shevardnadze was ousted.

Mr. Abashidze could complicate parliamentary elections if he manipulates
Adzharia's vote as he did in the previous election on Nov. 2, when more votes
were cast than there were registered voters.

At a news conference last week, Mr. Saakashvili, the likely successor to Mr.
Shevardnadze, sometimes as intemperate in his words as Mr. Abashidze, said, "He
hates me, and I hate his policies."

Ms. Burdzhanadze sounded a diplomatic note, saying she would travel to Adzharia
to meet with its leader after he returns from Moscow.

"Problems should be sought not only in the regions but also in the capital," she
said. "It is not the time now to try to find out who is more to blame but to
find the compromise necessary for the country."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers removed a fence yesterday at the president's office in
Tbilisi, the Georgian capital. The new interim leaders saw it as a symbol of
former President Eduard A. Shevardnadze's distance from the people. (Photo by
Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                             522 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 8, 2004 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gunfire Kills 5 During a March In Haiti Capital

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER and LYDIA POLGREEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, March 7


At least five people were killed Sunday when gunfire broke out near the
presidential palace, after thousands of Haitians, including rebel leaders,
marched peacefully through the capital to the palace gates.

The demonstrators, who had marched beside a convoy of armed United States
marines and French troops, were calling for a new government and a new army.

Four Haitians and a Spanish television journalist died from gunshot wounds, said
Dr. Ronald Georges, a surgeon at the overwhelmed emergency room of the Canape
Vert Hospital in the capital. At least 20 people were wounded by ''high-velocity
weapons,'' Dr. Georges said.

The carnage marred a march that was by far the largest in Haiti since President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide fled into exile a week ago under American pressure, after
a monthlong rebellion that had threatened to plunge Haiti into anarchy.

An international peacekeeping force led by the United States has since begun to
take control in Haiti, but both Aristide supporters and opponents remain heavily
armed, resisting American calls to turn in their weapons. The results of their
recalcitrance were plainly displayed Sunday, when men identified by witnesses as
militant supporters of Mr. Aristide fired on a crowd of peaceful demonstrators.

Thousands of Mr. Aristide's opponents were gathered near the palace gates when
the shooting started. Witnesses said the gunmen were chimeres, the toughs Mr.
Aristide had used to enforce his authority.

''The chimeres just started shooting at us out of nowhere,'' said Sacha Baker,
an opposition protester. ''The cops started shooting back, and a lot of people
were hit. The marines were nowhere to be seen.''

Three marines returned fire from inside the palace gates, said Maj. Richard
Crusan, a Marines spokesman in Port-au-Prince. He said a first volley came from
outside the gates at 2:40 p.m. and a second from outside the gates eight minutes
later.

A small contingent of marines came from inside the palace gates to aid some of
the wounded. The marines who were with the parade of demonstrators all morning
did not go all the way to the palace, but stopped to secure checkpoints a few
blocks away at midday, about two hours before the shooting.

Three witnesses said the gunfire had begun in the Rue Lamarre, 100 yards from
the palace gates. They said the shooting stopped after a group of marines came
from inside the palace gates toward the armed Aristide supporters, then resumed
after the marines went back to the palace carrying wounded people.

''The Marines need to change the rules of engagement,'' said Charles Baker, a
prominent Aristide opponent who helped bring the wounded to the hospital. ''They
need to protect us or they need to go home and let us protect ourselves.''

At the hospital emergency room, doctors struggled to cope with the nearly two
dozen gunshot victims. The most seriously wounded lay on gurneys; half a dozen
men writhed in pools of blood on the floor. Orderlies in lime-green suits
struggled to mop up the pools of blood as each victim passed through, but their
yellow buckets were soon full of crimson water.

''We have just two operating rooms,'' Dr. Georges said. ''We are doing the best
we can.''

In the waiting room, a woman in a black cap screamed: ''Cesar is dead! Cesar is
dead! We were just together marching, and now he is dead!'' Inside the emergency
room, behind a screen, lay a dead man, his head covered with a white sheet. A
piece of paper taped to his belly identified him: Cesar Milfort.

Guy Philippe, the rebel leader whose actions helped push Mr. Aristide into
exile, visited victims at the hospital, his face contorted as he saw their
wounds. Mr. Philippe, who has said he would disarm his men with the expectation
that American troops would protect the Haitian people but has not yet done so,
criticized the marines. ''They haven't done anything,'' he said.

Ricardo Ortega, the New York correspondent for the Spanish broadcast network
Antena 3, died of a gunshot wound to the abdomen. The wounded included an
American photographer, Michael Laughlin, 37, who was on assignment for the South
Florida Sun-Sentinel, of Fort Lauderdale. He was shot in the shoulder and cheek,
but the wounds were not life threatening, doctors said.

The march to the presidential palace began at about 9:15 a.m., less than six
hours before the shooting, when about 50 marines, French soldiers and Haitian
policemen rolled up to St. Peter's Church in Petionville, a suburb of
Port-au-Prince, during a Mass.

Several hundred demonstrators immediately set out with the rolling convoy of
foreign soldiers, making them part of the march. The river of people grew to
many thousands as it reached Toussaint L'Ouverture Boulevard, named after the
leader of the slave revolt that created a free Haiti in 1804.

The demonstration surged past the Marine convoy, carrying troops armed with
.50-caliber machine guns and assault rifles. Mr. Philippe, the rebel leader,
appeared in the crowd next to the marines. The demonstrators sang his praises,
and a marine telephoned superiors to report Mr. Philippe's presence.

Mr. Philippe has called for the restoration of the notorious Haitian Army, and
so did some demonstrators. The army overthrew Mr. Aristide in 1991 and the
United States restored him to power in 1994.

The marchers supported a new government, freed both from the influence of Mr.
Aristide's party, Lavalas, and from United States forces.

''We don't want Lavalas!'' the crowd sang. ''We don't want occupation!'' Others
chanted ''Bring back the army!'' and ''Fix the police!'' They also cheered for
Louis-Jodel Chamblain, a former Haitian military officer convicted of killing
Aristide supporters.

Hundreds of the marchers called for the arrest of Mr. Aristide's prime minister,
Yvon Neptune. Pamphlets, signs and chants supported a retired Haitian Army
lieutenant general, Herard Abraham, to replace him. A seven-member ''council of
elders'' is supposed to select a new prime minister in two or three days.

Mr. Abraham was a member of a military junta in the late 1980's. But, unique
among modern Haitian Army officers, he handed power to a civilian leader, the
sitting chief justice of the Supreme Court, in 1990. That opened the way to
Haiti's first free elections in December 1990, which Mr. Aristide won, only to
be overthrown by the army the next year.

As radio reports filtered through the crowd about a possible
counterdemonstration by Aristide supporters, the anti-Aristide crowd sang a song
in Creole about them. It went something like this, ''They're here, they're
weird, look out for them.''


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: After gunfire broke out in Port-au-Prince yesterday, marchers
and journalists ducked and marines took aim. (Photo by Agence
France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A1)
 A woman mourned over the body of her cousin, killed yesterday by gunfire near
the National Palace in Port-au-Prince, Haiti's capital, during a demonstration
against Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the departed president. (Photo by Michael
Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             523 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 9, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Dampen A Rare Protest Seeking Reform In Damascus

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 381 words

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, March 8


The security police quickly squelched an extremely rare public demonstration
demanding political reform on Monday, the 41st anniversary of the Baath Party's
seizure of power here.

Organizers and other reform advocates said the huge police presence in downtown
Damascus, which far outnumbered the demonstrators, was a sign of how jittery the
government and especially the overlapping security services remained just a year
after the rapid fall of the Baath Party in neighboring Iraq.

''There was a band of about 20 to 30 nonviolent people, hardly a group that
could threaten the government, yet it reacted in a way that is completely out of
proportion,'' said a Syrian intellectual who declined to be quoted by name,
fearing reprisals.

Rights advocates and others seeking reform planned to draw attention to their
petition demanding the lifting of emergency laws, which have been in place
throughout Baath Party rule, by staging a sit-in at the gates of Parliament. The
reform advocates say they have gathered 7,000 signatures to support their
demands.

But when the small band unfurled a few paper banners reflecting their demands,
dozens of plainclothes security officers pounced. They shredded the banners and
ripped up the notebooks of some reporters covering the protest, igniting
numerous scuffles.

At that point a colonel on the scene ordered the group to leave. ''You are not
permitted to be here; disperse,'' he said.

Instead of leaving, a half dozen demonstrators raised their hands over their
heads and one of them said mockingly, ''Take us to prison, even if we do fear
the authority.''

The security police began rounding up the demonstrators and others at the scene,
including this reporter, a photographer for The New York Times, a reporter for
the BBC and a junior diplomat from the American Embassy. The foreign reporters
were driven to a police station, given several rounds of coffee and tea and then
sent on their way with an apology after an hour.

The United States government protested the detention of the American diplomat to
the Syrian government, a spokesman for the embassy told The Associated Press.

The episode comes at a delicate time, with Washington threatening to impose a
new round of sanctions for what it calls Syrian support for terrorist groups.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             524 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 9, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Beijing's Criticism of Democracy Advocates Divides Hong Kong

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 577 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 8


Beijing's heavy criticism of Hong Kong's democracy advocates in the past two
weeks is increasingly dividing the public here, with many worrying that the
democratic movement has gone too far while others want to press on.

The division was visible on Sunday, when an unruly throng at Hong Kong
International Airport greeted the return of Martin Lee, the founding chairman of
the Democratic Party, who had gone to Washington to testify on democratic
reforms before the Senate subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific.

Pro-Beijing activists yelled that he was a traitor, while democracy supporters
cheered him, leading to shouting and finger-pointing that prompted the police to
separate the factions. The police estimated Monday that 200 people had shown up
from both sides. No arrests were made during the disturbance.

The confrontation was unusual for Hong Kong, where politics have been peaceful
in recent decades and where a demonstration by 500,000 people on July 1 against
the local government proceeded calmly.

By repeatedly questioning the patriotism of democracy advocates, senior
Communist officials in Beijing and their allies here and at government-run
newspapers appear to have succeeded in putting the democratic movement on the
defensive.

But the price has been to begin upsetting the very social stability here that
Chinese leaders have also set as a goal.

At a budget Chinese restaurant in the Wan Chai neighborhood on Monday afternoon,
Eric Ma, 49, a manager of a local engineering company, worried about whether the
two sides knew how far to push each other.

Mr. Ma criticized the democrats for demanding universal suffrage in the election
of the next chief executive in 2007. ''They are asking for something that goes
too far,'' he said.

Across the room, Chan Wai, 45, a waiter off duty from another restaurant,
studied a horse racing publication and then voiced a similar worry.

''Hong Kong needs democracy -- every country needs democracy -- but at the
moment the democratic movement in Hong Kong is opposed to the Chinese
government, and that is not good,'' he said.

Joseph C. W. Chan, a political scientist at Hong Kong University, said
''people's expectations might be lowered'' for democratic changes. But he added,
''That doesn't deter them from saying they want it.''

Michael DeGolyer, a pollster at Hong Kong Baptist University, said Beijing's
recent criticism had damaged its public standing in Hong Kong. But many here
admire the rapid economic growth on the mainland while Hong Kong has stagnated.

Richard Tsoi, a labor union activist, said it was unlikely that any more large
rallies would be held until July 1, the anniversary of Britain's transfer of the
territory to China in 1997. China promised then to respect Hong Kong's autonomy
for 50 years.

''It's not easy at this stage to rally people,'' he said. ''It's hard to
condemn, say, the Beijing government.''

Most worrisome for Beijing and Hong Kong leaders alike may be the sentiments of
a Hong Kong Chinese businessman sitting at a table near Mr. Chan. The
businessman said his employer had already moved four of its six teams in Hong
Kong to Singapore, partly because of uncertainty about Hong Kong's political
future.

The businessman, who lives in Australia but comes back periodically, said he and
other overseas citizens of Hong Kong felt dwindling enthusiasm for ever coming
home to live, and he added, ''That 50-year rule no longer binds, does it?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             525 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taiwanese President Agrees To Recount of Disputed Vote

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and JOSEPH KAHN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Tuesday, March 23


President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan agreed Tuesday morning to a recount of his
disputed victory by a razor-thin margin in the presidential elections on
Saturday, giving in to pressure from street demonstrations and the United
States.

President Chen said he would instruct lawmakers from his Democratic Progressive
Party to vote with lawmakers from the opposition Nationalist Party to pass a
special law making the recount possible. The government said a recount could
start as soon as Thursday, but could then last for days because considerable
work would be involved in recounting and verifying more than 13 million ballots.

Taiwanese law normally makes it very difficult to hold a recount. Even the
closest of elections -- President Chen defeated the Nationalist candidate, Lien
Chan, in the initial count on Saturday by just two-tenths of one percent -- do
not automatically qualify for a recount.

Hundreds, and at times thousands, of Nationalist supporters have been occupying
the boulevard in front of the Presidential Office since Saturday night. But a
greater source of pressure on the government was the conspicuous silence of the
United States in acknowledging Mr. Chen as the winner of a second four-year
term.

Taiwan depends very heavily on the American military to defend it against a
possible attack by mainland China, which has vowed to prevent the island from
pursuing formal independence.

Current Taiwanese law provides for a recount only when fraud or other
malfeasance can be demonstrated. The Nationalists contended Monday that they had
found some hints of vote rigging. They said they were still looking for evidence
to support another contention, first made Saturday, that President Chen might
have staged a shooting incident on Friday afternoon -- widely described as an
assassination attempt -- in which he was slightly injured in the abdomen,
drawing national sympathy less than 19 hours before the polls opened.

The Nationalists criticized President Chen's proposal as not going far enough.
Su Chi, the party's senior spokesman and senior foreign policy adviser, said the
party was nervous that Mr. Chen's proposal could get stuck in the legislature,
and wanted him to issue an immediate emergency order requiring a recount as
well.

Mr. Su said the Nationalists also wanted the creation of a fact-finding
investigation into the shooting, with particular attention given to why
President Chen ordered a national military alert afterward. The party contends
that the alert prevented as many as 200,000 police and military personnel from
voting.

The Defense Ministry, which Mr. Chen's administration controls, denies that any
personnel were prevented from voting beyond the usual numbers on duty. But the
mystery deepened Monday, when the ministry announced that the defense minister,
a retired general who used to be a member of the Nationalist Party, had
submitted his resignation on Sunday, citing a need to seek treatment for an eye
problem.

President Chen's proposal of the legislation marks his first public willingness
to accept any recount at all, and may make one inevitable. Under the proposal,
which would be retroactive to last Saturday, any election with a margin of
victory of less than 1 percent would be subject to an automatic recount.

In a speech early Tuesday afternoon, President Chen expressed regret that anyone
thought he might have staged the shooting and said he would welcome broad
participation in an investigation of the incident, although he provided few
details.

Taiwan's stock market, down as much as 5.1 percent on Tuesday morning, regained
part of this lost ground after the Democratic Progressive Party accepted a
recount, closing with a loss of 2.9 percent. The market remains well below the
level of last week, having fallen 6.7 percent on Monday. [Page W1.]

On Sunday, Taiwan's High Court ordered that all ballot boxes be sealed, and on
Monday it began considering the Nationalists' demand for a recount.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             526 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 27, 2004 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Bars Steps by Hong Kong Toward More Democratic Voting

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 26


Beijing on Monday barred popular elections for Hong Kong's chief executive in
2007 and ruled out any expanded voting by the general public for the legislature
in 2008, in the latest in a series of moves to restrict democracy here.

The decision angered democracy advocates here, who promised street
demonstrations, and drew sharp criticism from the United States and Britain,
which said Beijing was eroding the autonomy of Hong Kong that it had pledged to
preserve.

Beijing has been intervening increasingly in the territory's political affairs.
It has now made clear that it intends to give Hong Kong's people a very junior
role in decisions about how to open the electoral system in the future.

Bill Rammell, the British foreign office minister for China and Hong Kong,
called in China's ambassador in London to complain about the move, saying in a
statement that it was ''inconsistent with the 'high degree of autonomy' which
Hong Kong is guaranteed under the Joint Declaration.'' The declaration, by
Britain and China in 1984, cleared the way for Hong Kong's transfer to Chinese
rule.

China's leaders are tightening controls here after a series of developments that
began with a march by 500,000 people last July 1 to protest stringent
internal-security legislation.

In November elections for neighborhood councils, pro-Beijing parties were
trounced by pro-democracy parties, suggesting a grim future at the polls for
Beijing's allies. Finally, Taiwan's politicians moved further toward
independence, making Hong Kong less useful as an example of how Taiwan might
someday be reunited politically with the mainland.

The Basic Law, the legal framework governing Hong Kong, says that democratic
changes can begin in 2007. But at a meeting in Beijing on Dec. 3, President Hu
Jintao of China ordered Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief executive, to stop
preparations for those changes.

Through February and March, Beijing resorted to the tactics of the Cultural
Revolution in denouncing democracy advocates as ''clowns'' and ''traitors.''

On April 6, the Standing Committee of China's Parliament, the National People's
Congress, which is controlled by the Communist Party, ruled that no moves to
change election laws here could even be started without prior approval from
Beijing.

Under the Basic Law, the general public is already scheduled to elect half the
legislature's members in the next elections, to be held in September. Many here
had expected Beijing to increase this proportion in 2008 as a small,
conciliatory gesture.

But on Monday the Standing Committee ordered that the ratio remain fixed. If
more democratically elected seats are added, the committee said, more seats must
also be added for so-called functional constituencies.

Those seats represent specific industries or professions, like banking and
accounting, that tend to follow Beijing's wishes closely. In some of those
constituencies, fewer than 100 people are allowed to vote, most of them tycoons
with big investments on the mainland.

The Standing Committee also declared Monday that no changes would be allowed to
the provision that the Chinese government inserted into the Basic Law after the
military crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators at Tiananmen Square in Beijing
in 1989.

That provision says bills backed by the Beijing-selected chief executive of Hong
Kong need only a simple majority to pass, while bills and amendments introduced
by members of the legislature must clear a much higher hurdle: the support of a
majority of the democratically elected members plus a majority of the members
representing functional constituencies.

Despite the Standing Committee's actions, democracy advocates still could win a
majority of the legislature's seats in the September elections by taking almost
all of the publicly elected seats plus a handful of seats in certain functional
constituencies. That would produce the first pro-democracy legislative body in
the People's Republic of China since the Communists took power in 1949.

The Bush administration, eager to enlist Beijing in curbing North Korea's
nuclear weapons program, has been cautious about assailing China's increasingly
hard line here. On Monday, the White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, remained
somewhat muted, saying, ''We continue to stand on the side of democratic
reforms, as outlined in the Basic Law.''

James R. Keith, the United States consul general here, took a tougher stance.

''The central government's decision to limit the debate on constitutional
development here in Hong Kong by ruling out universal suffrage in 2007 is
disappointing,'' he said Monday afternoon. ''The Hong Kong people have not yet
reached a conclusion on their own. The imposition of the central authority's
outcome on a debate that has not yet occurred in Hong Kong is an erosion of the
high degree of autonomy that the Basic Law and the Joint Declaration
guaranteed.''

Jackie Hung, the financial secretary and chief spokeswoman of the Civil Human
Rights Front, a coalition of pro-democracy groups, said she hoped foreign
governments would put steady pressure on China to tolerate more democracy in
Hong Kong.

Mr. Tung, the Hong Kong chief executive, defended the latest decision by
Beijing, saying it was ''conducive to the long-term interests of Hong Kong.''

Ma Lik, the chairman of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment of Hong Kong,
the biggest pro-Beijing political party, said in a telephone interview that
Beijing's decision made sense to him because ''stability is more important than
radical change.''

Beijing officials have called for an end to the active discussions of democracy
here.

Donald Tsang, the chief secretary and Hong Kong's second-ranking official after
Mr. Tung, said Monday that further democracy proposals by the public should be
confined to the possibilities offered by Beijing's decision.

But Christine Loh, the chief executive of the Civic Exchange, a nonprofit
research group here, said that while Beijing had the ability to ban formal
changes in Hong Kong, it would have a harder time trying to silence the debate.
''You still have a corner of China where the high-level officials of China have
made a decision and it's not going to be obeyed,'' she said.

In a clear indication of concern about the potential for further demonstrations,
Mr. Tung said at a news conference, ''I'd like to urge various sectors of the
community to be calm and rational.''

Democracy advocates are planning demonstrations on June 4, the 15th anniversary
of the Tiananmen Square crackdown, and on July 1, which is a public holiday to
commemorate the transfer of control of Hong Kong to China in 1997 but is now
seen largely as the anniversary of the huge protest last year.

Mr. Tung subsequently withdrew the security legislation, which had been strongly
backed by Beijing.

Mr. Tsang said there might be room for broadening the number of people who can
vote in some of the functional constituencies.

The number of members of the Legislative Council elected by the general public
is rising, to 30 of 60 in the September elections from 24 out of 60 in the
current session of the legislature, under a schedule set before the transfer to
Chinese rule. Mr. Tsang and Mr. Ma said it was important to see how this worked
instead of planning a further increase in 2008.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                             527 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Huge Rally in Jerusalem Protests U.S. Proposal to Divide Sovereignty

BYLINE:  By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1378 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 8


Religious and nationalist Israelis poured into the contested heart of Jerusalem
tonight to "pledge allegiance" to the Holy City and to put on a strong, festive
show of opposition to an American peacemaking plan that seeks to split it up.

The peace plan itself, proposed by President Clinton in December, is flailing as
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators await an American envoy, Dennis B. Ross,
without great expectations that he can bring the two sides any closer. Mr. Ross
is due to leave for the region on Tuesday.

The faltering of the peace effort did take the edge of anxiety off the "One
Jerusalem" demonstration at the Jaffa Gate of the Old City tonight. But it did
not dampen the spirit of a huge crowd of Israelis -- many young, many wearing
knitted skullcaps and many wrapped in Israeli flags -- who chanted and danced
under the floodlit stone walls. They particularly enjoyed a religious boys'
choir's version of the disco song, "I Will Survive."

"As a religious person, I have such a love for Yerushalayim," said Uriel Rivkin,
a Hasidic man, speaking in English but using the Hebrew word for Jerusalem.
"Three times a day, I pray to it. I understand they're here, the Arabs. They
have their neighborhoods. It's a big problem. But as best as I can tell, the
peace thing is not so serious now."

Dr. Avraham Moskowitz, who lives in the settlement of Efrat, interrupted, "It is
serious; it is serious."

"Then why," Mr. Rivkin asked, "aren't there two million, three million Jews
surrounding Yerushalayim tonight, if it's so serious?"

Crowd estimates are always inflated and deflated by politics, but this appeared
to be one of the largest Israeli rallies alongside the Old City walls in
decades. The police gave no figures. Israel's Channel Two put the crowd at more
than 100,000. Mayor Ehud Olmert -- a principal organizer along with Natan
Sharansky, the Russian immigrant leader -- announced to great cheers that there
were 400,000 participants present.

"I have never been so deeply moved as I am now to see all of you so pressed
together here in the streets of Jerusalem, so excited and enthusiastic," Mayor
Olmert said. "This is not a political rally. This is the expression of the deep
emotional link of the people of Israel to our eternal and undivided capital."

If not overtly political, the rally's sponsors and its participants tended to be
conservative. In addition to Mr. Olmert and Mr. Sharansky, the founding
committee of One Jerusalem included David Bar-Ilan, who was spokesman for
Benjamin Netanyahu when he was prime minister; Dore Gold, the United Nations
ambassador under Mr. Netanyahu; Tom Rose, publisher of The Jerusalem Post; and
Jackie Mason, the American comedian.

The organizers said buses had come from all over Israel, from Qiryat Shemona in
the north to Beersheva in the south. But it was not a cross section of Israeli
society. Many in the crowd identified themselves as religious Zionists, as
yeshiva students and as settlers. Many spoke English, French or Russian.

"It troubles me that the crowd is mostly religious," said Hannah Duek, 55, a
settler. "I don't understand it. The others say that Jerusalem is dear to them,
but they prefer to sit on their couches and deliberate between Barak, Bibi and
Sharon." She referred to Prime Minister Ehud Barak, Mr. Netanyahu and Ariel
Sharon, the Likud Party candidate for prime minister in the Feb. 6 elections.

Colette Avital, a Labor Party legislator, said she had "no doubt" that the rally
was a right-wing campaign effort to associate the love of Jerusalem with the
nationalist camp. "If it wasn't connected to the electoral campaign, they could
have waited and done it on the seventh of February or made a committee that
included some of us on the left," she told Jerusalem Post radio.

Indeed, many participants had politics on their mind. Bernice Brownstein, a
Welsh-born settler who works as a nursery school teacher in Jerusalem, said she
voted for Mr. Barak in 1999. "He was a kibbutznik, a general, everything you
wanted in an Israeli leader," she said. "Now I'll vote for anyone but him. When
it came down to it, he was prepared to sell us out. Jerusalem long ago stopped
being left or right. But the politicians don't respect what the people feel."

Mr. Clinton's plan would divide Jerusalem, giving Israelis sovereignty over
Jewish areas and Palestinians sovereignty over Arab areas.

Mr. Barak accepted the plan with reservations, and the principal one concerned
split sovereignty over the holy plateau in the Old City. Mr. Barak said he would
not accept Palestinian sovereignty over the Temple Mount, site of the First and
Second Temples of the ancient Jews, sacred to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary,
where Muhammad is said to have ascended to heaven.

Last week, Israel's two chief rabbis declared that Jewish law forbids giving up
sovereignty over the Temple Mount. Today, the highest-ranking Islamic cleric
here, Ikrama Sabri, the mufti of Jerusalem, issued a religious ruling saying the
entire compound belongs to the Muslims. The Aksa Mosque complex belongs to the
Islamic trust, he said, and "Muslims are forbidden to allow non-Muslims to
control" even "its depths, no matter how far down, and the space above it, now
matter how high up."

As the Israelis were gathering for tonight's rally, shopkeepers in the Muslim
quarter were pulling down their metal shutters. The Hebrew odes to Jerusalem --
"She is Jerusalem, ay-yi-yi" -- blaring from loudspeakers on the Old City's
perimeter did not penetrate into the quiet interior of the marketplace. There
the rally -- with such placards as "We pray to Jerusalem; they turn their back
to Jerusalem and pray to Mecca" -- seemed a world away.

David Weinberg, who works as a spokesman for Bar Ilan University, said this was
the second rally he had attended in 20 years. The last one took place in Canada,
calling for Mr. Sharansky, then a dissident, to be freed from a Soviet
prison."Now Sharansky is liberated, and he's here fighting for Jerusalem," Mr.
Weinberg said. "Go figure life."

On a trip to the United States last week, Mr. Sharansky raised money for the
rally. The organizers would not identify the contributors. "It was the easiest
fund-raising I have ever had to do," Mr. Sharansky said, "because people are so
concerned for Jerusalem. I did not even have to go to New York. I could have
done it all on the telephone."

Ronald Lauder, chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish
Organizations, spoke at the rally; his participation was criticized by some
Israeli leftists as meddling in Israeli politics.

Mr. Sharanksy said that although the peace proposal appeared to be frozen, Mr.
Clinton was trying to enshrine the points of agreement between the two sides in
a written document. "Some very dangerous things are happening," he said. "They
want to institutionalize all their ideas and create another international
agreement, without a mandate from the people."

Part of a huge security presence, the Israeli police stood guard to prevent
torch-carrying demonstrators from extending their human chain entirely around
the walled Old City. The police blocked access to the Palestinian sections,
turning back those who tried to march to the Damascus Gate. At that gate, in a
brief skirmish, some Palestinians youths threw stones at the Israeli police.

During the rally, the Gilo neighborhood on the edge of Jerusalem came under fire
from a Palestinian refugee camp. After months of nightly shooting attacks on
Gilo, which prompted the Israeli Army to fire back at gunmen operating out of
the Palestinian town of Beit Jala, the area had recently been quiet. The
Israelis said they did not fire back tonight, and there were no injuries.

In Gaza, near the Jewish settlement of Netzarim, a Palestinian man was killed by
Israeli troops. Palestinian officials said the Palestinian, Abed al-Hamid
al-Hurati, had been shot during a gunfight.

At the rally, with tears in her eyes, Tobi Willig, an elderly American-born
Jerusalemite, surveyed the crowd. "I see these walls, and I start to cry," she
said, grasping a reporter's hand. "For so many years, the Jewish people have
been saying, 'Next year in Jerusalem.' What else would we say, 'Next year in
Kochav Yair'?" Kochav Yair is the elite suburb where Mr. Barak lives.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Israeli Jews protesting the American plan waved flags and signs
like this one last night at a rally in Jerusalem. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             528 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Says Protest Papers Are Distorted

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, Tuesday, Jan. 9


The Chinese Government today defended the crushing of pro-democracy
demonstrations at Tiananmen Square in 1989 as "highly necessary to the stability
and development of China."

In the first official response to the "Tiananmen papers," reportedly internal
documents newly published in the United States that portray divisions among
China's leaders at the time, a government spokesman also suggested that they
were fake.

"Any attempt to play up the matter again and disrupt China by the despicable
means of fabricating materials and distorting facts will be futile," a spokesman
for the foreign ministry, Zhu Bangzao, said in a statement issued early this
morning by the New China News Agency.

The documents were reportedly brought out of China by a man who told scholars
that he was a Communist Party member who hoped to influence the debate over
political change. The American experts who translated and edited the materials
said they were convinced that the papers were authentic, though they could not
be positive.

The violent suppression of the movement and the branding of its leaders as
enemies of the state remain a source of bitter division in China, but no public
discussion is allowed.

Copies of the documents are circulating on the Internet and are being avidly
read by intellectuals, who say they have found no big surprises. There is no
sign yet of any major effects on the political scene, where jockeying has begun
for the top party and government positions in the next few years.

The documents depict sharp divisions among China's leaders at the time, pitting
a faction led by the party chief, Zhao Ziyang, that sought compromise with the
students, against hard-liners led by Prime Minister Li Peng, who feared that the
party could be toppled.

The papers also confirm that the ultimate power lay with party "elders" led by
Deng Xiaoping, who decided to take forceful action against the democracy
movement, which had drawn in millions of people in hundreds of cities. In the
documents, Mr. Deng expresses concern that the country could fall into chaos and
that his plans for economic change could be destroyed.

On the night of June 3 and 4, after Mr. Deng's decision to crack down, troops
poured into Beijing, shooting at crowds and killing hundreds. Mr. Zhao was
placed under house arrest, where he remains.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             529 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 5, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Crowd Control Weapon

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 131 words


To the Editor:

The Pentagon's development of an electromagnetic "crowd-dispersal weapon" is
outrageous (news article, March 2). Dissent makes a nation stronger! In my
lifetime, we have seen war protesters clubbed, arrested and sometimes killed;
civil rights marchers attacked with dogs and clubs; Chicago police officers
attacking political dissenters.

Now there is an electronic weapon to disperse crowds, costing $40 million so
far. For soccer games? Mardi Gras fanatics?

Congress ought to pull in the Pentagon militarists because tax dollars are
paying for the wrong products. I wince imagining this weapon facing citizens of
any country. Freedom to dissent, whether by one person or 5,000, should not be
against the law in a democracy.

ROBERT S. CORYA
Indianapolis, March 2, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             530 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 24, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sharpton and 3 From Bronx Are Jailed in Vieques Protest

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words


A federal judge in San Juan, P.R., yesterday jailed the Rev. Al Sharpton and
three prominent Puerto Rican politicians from New York for protesting near the
United States Navy bombing site on Vieques earlier this month.

The judge stunned their supporters by sentencing the group on misdemeanor
trespassing convictions to a range of 40 to 90 days, much sterner penalties than
the fines that were generally assessed against those who were arrested last year
during an earlier round of bombing range demonstrations.

Mr. Sharpton received the longest sentence, 90 days, after prosecutors told
Judge Jose Antonio Fuste that Mr. Sharpton had been convicted 11 years ago for a
1987 protest in Brooklyn.

City Councilman Adolfo Carrion Jr., State Assemblyman Jose Rivera and Roberto
Ramirez, a former state legislator and the Bronx County Democratic leader, were
each sentenced to 40 days. Seven other Vieques protesters received jail
sentences yesterday during the same trial. Two other defendants with medical
conditions were put on probation.

Politicians, including Gov. George E. Pataki, have been streaming south to the
island this spring to support or participate in the protests against the Navy's
decision to resume the bombing on Vieques. The bombings have touched a nerve
among many Puerto Ricans in New York and on the island, and the demonstrations
have attracted their share of celebrities and publicity that might help
candidates appeal to Latino voters.

But the civil disobedience could backfire. At the very least, these prison
sentences, if upheld, could complicate the political campaigns of at least two
candidates. Mr. Ramirez is a central figure in the mayoral campaign of Fernando
Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, serving both as a day-to-day strategic
adviser and as the leader of his drive to collect the thousands of signatures
needed to get on the September primary ballot.

Mr. Carrion, meanwhile, is running for Bronx borough president. He must also
collect signatures by the July petition deadline.

He and the other three New York politicians had expected earlier this week that
they might just receive fines, one of their lawyers said, learning only Tuesday
that they were required to get to San Juan immediately for trial.

Appeals by the four will be filed in Boston today, with each seeking to be
released from jail pending the appeal, their lawyers said.

One of the lawyers representing the four pleaded with the judge to postpone such
a hastily called trial, but the judge refused and a federal prosecutor began
calling officers who witnessed the protests to testify.

"I don't come from Puerto Rico," Mr. Sharpton told Judge Fuste at the three-hour
trial yesterday afternoon. "But I am one for standing up for something that is
right. This building will be closed next January in honor of Martin Luther King,
who stood for civil rights. Before you sentence me, I would like to wish you a
happy King Day."

And Mr. Carrion asked Judge Fuste yesterday to delay his incarceration until
after the September primary. "I am not trying to get around meting out justice,"
Mr. Carrion said. "I put my career on the line."

But the prosecutor, Peter Strasser, an assistant United States attorney for New
Orleans who is handling the protest cases as part of his duties in the Naval
Reserve, said Mr. Carrion and Mr. Sharpton knew they were breaking the law.

"The government will reject the notion that what they say will affect their
professional lives," he said. "They should have thought about that before
violating the law."

One of the people who accompanied the four to the protest on May 1 said the
demonstration lasted 20 minutes and involved climbing through an existing hole
in the fence surrounding Camp Garcia. Military personnel then surrounded them,
and removed them in a truck.

After yesterday's sentencing, the four New Yorkers and others were handcuffed
and led out of the courtroom and taken to a federal jail in Guaynabo, a San Juan
suburb. Representative Charles B. Rangel was attempting to arrange for Mr.
Sharpton to be transferred to a federal jail in New York if he must serve out
his full term, a spokesman for the New York congressman said yesterday, adding
that he was prepared to make similar requests for the other three.

The jail sentences brought swift and angry condemnations from a broad collection
of New York City politicians, including more than a dozen City Council members
who held a hastily organized news conference on the steps of City Hall.

"It is an outrage, an outrage," said City Councilman Joel Rivera, son of
Assemblyman Rivera. "Forty days in federal prison for something that is a
constitutional right."

The major Democratic mayoral candidates -- Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone,
Public Advocate Mark Green, Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi and Mr. Ferrer --
condemned the sentences, a sign of how powerful this issue is to Puerto Rican
voters in the city.

"All civil rights leaders understand they have to pay the penalty in the event
that they exercise their civil rights," Mr. Vallone said. "But this is too
severe a penalty."

The demonstrations against the bombing exercises at Camp Garcia started after
one person was killed and four others were wounded in April 1999, after the Navy
dropped two 500-pound bombs near where they worked.

Residents also complained that the tests posed a health risk, but the Navy has
denied those claims and said that the site is important for training and has
been safe for use for the last 60 years. Vieques residents will vote on a
referendum in November as to whether the Navy should be allowed to continue the
bombing exercises.

About 480 demonstrators were arrested during a first wave of protests between
May and October of last year. Penalties for those protesters ranged from fines
of up to $1,000 or the time they had served during their original detention.
More recently, about 170 protesters were arrested between April 26 and May 2,
around the time of another Navy bombing exercise.

But a shift in penalties for the protests seems to have begun about two weeks
ago, when the first trials started for the latest round of protests.

Ruben Berrios, the leader of the Puerto Rican Independence Party, was sentenced
on May 16 to four months in jail, a term imposed in part based on a previous
conviction. Several others were sentenced at the same time to two months in
jail.

The four New York politicians went to Vieques with the intent of being arrested,
but only learned in the last day or so of the more severe penalties being
imposed, said Stanley K. Schlein, the lawyer for Mr. Carrion, Mr. Rivera and Mr.
Ramirez. Yesterday, as they arrived in court, they were aware they could soon be
headed off to jail, Mr. Schlein said.

"It is clear this court wants to send a message to the people of Puerto Rico and
others that they are going to be treated extra harshly if they continue with
protests on Vieques," Mr. Schlein said.

Other prominent politicians and celebrities are awaiting trial on similar
trespassing charges related to protests at Vieques in the last month, including
Dennis Rivera, the New York labor leader; Representative Luis Gutierrez, a
Democrat from Illinois; Edward James Olmos, the actor; and Robert F. Kennedy
Jr., an environmental lawyer.

Mr. Sharpton has been arrested more than a dozen times and jailed at least three
times, including time served based on charges relating to the 1987 nonviolent
protest of the Howard Beach slaying of a black man by a group of white
teenagers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In handcuffs, Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic chairman,
left; the Rev. Al Sharpton; and Assemblyman Jose Rivera in San Juan yesterday.
Behind Mr. Sharpton was Councilman Adolfo Carrion Jr. (Associated Press)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             531 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 25, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protesting the Vieques Bombing

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 425 words


People who commit civil disobedience to call attention to an issue do so knowing
they will have to pay a penalty. But the punishment meted out by a federal judge
in Puerto Rico to the Rev. Al Sharpton and other New York politicians for their
demonstrations against military bombing exercises on the island of Vieques seems
excessive. Moreover, lawyers for the group have raised serious questions about
due process in the hasty scheduling of the protesters' trial. These questions
warrant careful review by an appellate court.

Over the last year, protesting the bombing on Vieques has become an important
rite, especially among politicians in New York, where there are over a million
Puerto Rican voters. After touring the lush island in April, Gov. George Pataki
called for an end to the bombing exercises, as have other visitors like Fernando
Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, who is running for mayor of New York City.
Mr. Pataki and Mr. Ferrer, however, did not join the hundreds of demonstrators
who trespassed and were arrested as protests have intensified.

In most cases, the arrests have drawn fines of $1,000 or a sentence for time
served in jail. But in recent weeks the federal trial court in Puerto Rico has
stiffened the penalties. The leader of the Puerto Rican Independence Party was
sentenced to four months in jail, in part because of a previous conviction.
Similarly, Mr. Sharpton was slapped with a 90-day sentence after prosecutors
told the judge about an earlier conviction for civil disobedience in 1989 on the
Brooklyn Bridge.

Others, who were jailed for 40 days beginning on Wednesday afternoon, were
Roberto Ramirez, Democratic Party chairman in the Bronx; Assemblyman Jose Rivera
of the Bronx; and City Councilman Adolfo Carrion, who is running for Bronx
borough president. Among those still waiting for their day in the San Juan court
are Dennis Rivera, a labor leader, and Robert Kennedy Jr., an environmental
lawyer.

Mr. Sharpton and his crowd were charged with trespassing after climbing through
a hole in the fence around the Navy base and demonstrating for about 20 minutes
without interrupting any government operation. Since this has become a fairly
routine event in recent months, perhaps the Navy could fix its fences.

The appeals court, in Boston, has a more difficult task. The higher court needs
to take a hard look at whether the unusual swiftness of this trial allowed
defendants enough time to prepare an adequate defense for a verdict that
resulted in sentences that seemed disproportionate to the offense.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             532 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mrs. Sharpton Urges Soup, But Note Sustains Son Instead

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SAULNY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 421 words


Had a personal note of encouragement not arrived from Coretta Scott King, Ada
Sharpton might have persuaded her son to have some soup yesterday.

Mrs. Sharpton, the worried mother of the Rev. Al Sharpton, flew from Dothan,
Ala., to visit her son at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn. She
tried for more than an hour to persuade him to end the hunger strike he began
while serving a 90-day prison sentence for participating in a protest against
United States Navy bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques.

But ultimately, Mr. Sharpton renewed his conviction to the fast, his lawyer and
spokeswoman said, because he drew strength from a letter that Mrs. King, the
widow of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., had sent from Atlanta.

"I know that this is a difficult time for you, but I trust that you will keep
strong in spirit, remembering Martin's assurance that unearned suffering for a
just cause is indeed redemptive," Mrs. King wrote to Mr. Sharpton.

Mrs. King also expressed her "wholehearted support" for Mr. Sharpton and the
other members of the so-called Vieques Four -- Assemblyman Jose Rivera, City
Councilman Adolfo Carrion Jr. and Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic Party
chairman.

The three leaders were given 40 days in jail for their role in the protest. Mr.
Sharpton was given 90 days in jail because of an earlier conviction for his
role.

On Friday, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit denied
requests for the politicians to be freed on bail.

So far, Mr. Sharpton has lost eight pounds subsisting only on liquid, according
to Rachel Noerdlinger, his spokeswoman. Mrs. Sharpton, in one brief comment she
made after meeting with her son, said he would have liked to have a bowl of
something hot.

"Soup is what he wants to eat," she said. "And I feel that what he wants is what
he should have."

But the letter from Mrs. King, which arrived Friday, weighed heavily on Mr.
Sharpton's mind, according to his lawyer, Sanford Rubenstein. "After reading
that letter, he was so moved that he decided that he will continue to fast," he
said.

Ms. Noerdlinger said that Mr. Sharpton's mother, who is in her 70's, was too
tired to elaborate on her feelings after the morning meeting.

The visit came on the day that Mr. Sharpton had planned to renew his wedding
vows with his wife, Kathy Jordan Sharpton, at 3 p.m. at Canaan Baptist Church in
Harlem. Those plans have been postponed. Mr. Sharpton did not want to have the
ceremony wearing handcuffs in prison, Mr. Rubenstein said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ada Sharpton visited her son, the Rev. Al Sharpton, yesterday.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             533 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. SAID TO PLAN HALT TO EXERCISES ON VIEQUES ISLAND

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13


The Bush administration will announce on Thursday that it will halt all military
exercises and aerial bombing runs on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques by May
2003, reversing the Navy's long-running insistence that no other locale is
suitable for battle simulations, senior officials said tonight.

The decision was made today at a White House meeting that included President
Bush's top political adviser, Karl Rove, who has frequently voiced concerns that
the mounting protests against the Navy operations and the arrest of the
protesters seeking to block the exercises was costing Mr. Bush vital support
among Hispanics. Also attending was Gordon England, the secretary of the Navy,
who told lawmakers tonight that he would recommend that the Navy stop using the
range by 2003, officials said.

Another exercise involving the dropping of inert bombs is scheduled to begin on
Monday, and a senior administration official said today that "we wanted to get
the word out quickly" that the administration would end the exercises, though
not as quickly as Puerto Rican officials have demanded.

In April, about 180 protesters, including four prominent New York politicians,
were arrested for disrupting the exercises, and more arrests seem likely in
coming days.

The announcement on Thursday, which was first reported on the evening network
news reports, appears intended to short-circuit Puerto Rican plans to hold a
referendum next month on the Navy's operations on the island, which covers
33,000 acres and has about 9,300 residents.

While the referendum would have no legal effect on the Navy, Gov. Sila Calderon,
until now a harsh critic of the military's refusal to end the exercises, has
used it to build political pressure on the Bush administration, a tactic that
seems to have worked. Ms. Calderon signed a bill into law this week authorizing
the July 29 referendum, though it is now unclear whether that will go ahead.

Some critics of the Navy's activities said tonight that they would continue
their crusade until the Navy agreed to halt all Vieques maneuvers immediately.

"If they're saying 'We will continue bombing till 2003,' that would be
unacceptable," said Representative Jose E. Serrano, a New York Democrat who was
born in Puerto Rico.

Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, another opponent of the bombing,
said, "It's like me telling you that I'm going to stop beating you in the head
with a hammer in two years."

Mr. Rangel called the two-year deadline a "very embarrassing thing" for Governor
Calderon, who has campaigned heavily on a Navy pullout.

Governor Calderon released the following statement tonight: "The information
being disseminated this afternoon over the military maneuvers in Vieques is not
official."

Her office, she added, "should not make any statements about it for the moment."

A defense official said the Pentagon began seriously studying ways to leave
Vieques after President Bush said in an interview broadcast in early May by
Univision, the Spanish-language network, that the United States needed to find
another base for its Atlantic live-fire training.

The official said that after May 2003, the Navy would return the Vieques range
to the Department of Interior, which would then determine how to clean up or
otherwise dispose of the land, which is uninhabitable because it is littered
with shrapnel and unexploded shells.

The Navy has conducted exercises on the eastern tip of the island for more than
50 years. Military officials have maintained that live-fire training at Vieques,
including both aerial bombing and ship-to-shore shelling, is the only way to
verify that its aircraft and ships are combat-ready.

Many in the Pentagon, already unhappy with the Bush administration's failure
thus far to increase the defense budget sharply, are likely to complain that the
Vieques decision was made for political reasons to the detriment of combat
readiness. The Pentagon has frequently called the Vieques range, which is also
used by the Marine Corps, "the best in the Atlantic."

Mr. England, a longtime executive in the defense industry, came into his job
with a mandate to solve the problem. A senior White House official said Mr.
England will "get outside experts, including some retired officers, to determine
alternative sites that the Navy can use."

Also involved in today's meeting was Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D.
Wolfowitz, who had promised to take a new look at the issue after the Clinton
administration refused to act on Puerto Rico's demand that the exercises be
suspended.

The Rev. Al Sharpton is serving a 90-day prison sentence for protesting on the
island. Three other politicians got 40-day sentences: Assemblyman Jose Rivera of
New York, Councilman Adolfo Carrion Jr. of New York City and Roberto Ramirez,
the Bronx Democratic Party chairman.

Mr. Carrion, Mr. Ramirez and Mr. Rivera issued a joint statement last night
condemning the two-year deadline as "completely unacceptable."

In April, a federal judge refused to block naval bombing on Vieques, saying
there was insufficient evidence that residents would be irreparably harmed in
the absence of such an order. At least one study has shown a high incidence of
heart problems among the fishermen and children on the island, chiefly a
disorder known as vibroacoustic disease. It is linked to loud noises like those
from jet engines or explosions.

Two referendums on the Navy's activities in Vieques have been scheduled for
later this year. The first vote, the July referendum, is being held by the
government of Puerto Rico to determine whether residents want the Navy to stay
in Vieques, to remain but stop using live ammunition, or halt all training and
leave immediately.

A November referendum is to be held by the Navy itself.

That referendum was set up last year, when the previous governor of Puerto Rico
struck a deal with the Clinton administration that allowed bombing to resume in
exchange for a vote that would give Vieques residents a choice between ending
the bombing in May 2003 or receving $90 million in aid. Governor Calderon
repudiated that agreement in January, saying she wanted the bombing to stop
immediately.

Mr. Serrano said the White House hoped to eliminate the need for either
referendum and to avoid a political embarrassment. "Everybody suspects the vote
would be a landslide for the Navy to get out altogether," he said.

The decision today could also affect operations in the Pacific. The Marines are
under intense pressure on the Japanese island of Okinawa, where training
exercises have long brought protests. Mr. Bush will have to explain to Japan why
a decision made for an American territory would not also apply to American
training on foreign soil.

Ken Lisaius, a White House spokesman, declined to provide details of the
decision, but said the Pentagon would make an announcement on Thursday.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             534 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In America;
Treated Like Trash

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 704 words


Velda Gonzalez may be 68 years old, the vice president of the Senate in Puerto
Rico and a grandmother several times over. But none of that mattered to U.S.
Navy officials who treated her like trash, which is the same way they've treated
so many others who have been arrested for protesting the Navy's bombing
exercises on the island of Vieques.

The Navy may be pulling out of Vieques over the next two years, as the White
House indicated last night. But meanwhile, its treatment of protesters remains a
serious problem.

Ms. Gonzalez was with a large group of demonstrators, including a U.S.
congressman, Luis Gutierrez of Illinois, who were arrested on Vieques in April
and subjected to harsh, dangerous and at times sadistic treatment at the hands
of Navy personnel. Details of the arrests made that weekend have been emerging
through interviews and a hearing held in Washington last week by members of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

Ms. Gonzalez and dozens of others were rounded up by security personnel on the
afternoon of April 28 and charged with trespassing on Navy property. "As soon as
they caught us," said Ms. Gonzalez in a telephone interview on Tuesday, "we
offered our hands and they handcuffed us."

The detainees were taken by truck to a fenced-in detention area. Several, still
handcuffed, were forced to kneel for extended periods on the gravel and
rock-strewn ground. They were taunted and told by their captors to "eat dirt."

One of those kneeling was Congressman Gutierrez. The military guards became
enraged when he lifted one of his legs while trying awkwardly to clear some
debris from the spot where he was kneeling.

The congressman and several witnesses, including Ms. Gonzalez, said two of the
guards grabbed Mr. Gutierrez by his shirt and trousers, lifted him in the air
and tossed him several feet. When he landed face down they began kicking him. "I
was yelling, 'He's a congressman! He's a congressman!' " said Ms. Gonzalez.

After being held overnight, the detainees were taken by barge to the main island
of Puerto Rico. Some of the prisoners were forced to kneel in the hot sun on the
deck of the barge. Young women kneeling on the deck were harassed by officers
who made obscene comments and gestures.

Ms. Gonzalez said the prisoners were worried because they were still handcuffed
and were not wearing life jackets. She said they were told that prisoners given
life jackets would be required to have their hands cuffed behind their backs.

"That would force us to lean forward if we were in the water, even with a life
jacket," said Ms. Gonzalez. "We would drown if there was an accident. So we
preferred to stay with our hands cuffed in the front."

The ordeal that caused Ms. Gonzalez to weep was still to come.

The prisoners were subjected to body searches at a processing center. For some
reason, when it was Ms. Gonzalez's turn to be searched, she was taken outside,
and the search was conducted in public. "They made the most indecent,
disgusting, immoral search of me, out in the street, in front of a cyclone fence
with 20 Navy men watching," she said.

It was more an exercise in humiliation than a real search. It was conducted by a
woman who began by lifting Ms. Gonzalez's blouse. The rest of the search
consisted of the very public rubbing, squeezing and mauling -- through her
clothing -- of the vice president of the Puerto Rican Senate.

Ms. Gonzalez underwent radiation treatment for breast cancer a few years ago,
which has left her breasts very tender. She began to cry on the telephone as she
described the mortification and the physical pain she felt during the search.
"This was in front of everybody," said Ms. Gonzalez. "I'm an old woman. I'm a
grandmother of 11 grandchildren."

Many other abuses were detailed at the hearing, conducted by Representative
Robert Menendez of New Jersey. But the Navy seems unconcerned. A spokesman, Lt.
Cory Barker, told me yesterday, "There are no formal investigations by the Navy
at this point because we have not deemed that, in fact, we have had any cases of
abuse or excessive force."

I asked him if the testimony of a U.S. congressman supported by eyewitnesses was
enough to prompt the Navy to at least investigate further.

He said no.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             535 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Protests and Disagreements for Bush in Sweden

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush's papier-mache image towered over protesters in
Goteborg yesterday as his speeches played. At a summit meeting, Mr. Bush and
European leaders differed sharply over global warming. Page A6. (Associated
Press)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             536 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Swedes Have a Litany Of Complaints for Bush

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: GOTEBORG, Sweden, June 14


Most days, Kiffa Alverfors attends college classes, intent on getting a job in
media relations. But today she was among thousands who marched through the
streets of this city protesting a visit by President Bush.

Like many others, Ms. Alverfors, 24 -- who carried a handmade poster saying
"Bush: Try Love, Not Greed" -- had a long list of complaints. "I am against so
many things about him it is hard to explain," Ms. Alverfors said. "The
capitalist system is a way of living that I don't agree with."

"The system needs rules to control it," she said. "But they are disappearing.
Mr. Bush does not think about smaller countries, he only thinks about more
income."

As President Bush finished what he called candid talks with European Union
leaders in an 18th-century country manor nine miles outside this port city,
protesters -- sometimes with their faces painted, sometimes pushing baby
carriages -- carried banners, and chanted objections to his policies.

In the crowd was a nine-foot-tall papier-mache Bush head playing tape recordings
of his speeches as well as posters calling him the "Toxic Texan" and pictures of
him with devil's horns. "No Star Wars," said one banner. "Jobs Not Bombs" said
another.

Some marchers looked fierce, waving traditional black-and-red anarchist banners,
refusing to talk to reporters and hiding their faces behind dark glasses and
masks. And, at one point, a group of protesters clashed with police officers who
had sealed a school building to lock in about 400 demonstrators suspected of
planning acts of violence. The protesters threw rocks and cobblestones but
dispersed when mounted police officers charged. Police officials said eight
people were arrested.

But for the most part, the day's events were peaceful, more akin to a 1960's
sit-in than to the violent protests in the city of Seattle during the W.T.O.
talks in 1999.

"I think America and Bush are really going to try to direct the world in their
direction and it is not a good one for ordinary people," said Gunnel Berge, a
54-year-old drama teacher who marched with two friends.

"The death penalty is a really uncivilized thing," she said. "Refusing to worry
about the environment because he wants to save the American lifestyle -- that's
an outrageous thing."

Among others, the protesters included environmental, feminist and
antiglobalization groups. But the vast majority of marchers were teenagers or
college students mixing the urge to protest with the chance to mingle with
friends and have a good time on a sunny evening in June.

At one point, dozens of protesters participated in a mooning -- starting a
countdown and then dropping their pants in unison. Three participants, standing
side by side, were able to spell out the phrase "We Hate Bush" on their
backsides.

The Swedish police had worked for weeks to prepare for violence, including
meeting with protesters to listen to their concerns. Protesters had objected to
the sight of police officers in full riot uniform, so Swedish authorities
reduced the number of such officers along the official route.

But the police presence in the city was not subtle. Rings of chain-link fences
surrounded the conference center for the summit meeting and traffic was blocked
from dozens of streets. By afternoon, many merchants near the conference center
had boarded up their windows, fearing rock throwers and looting. By late
evening, however, no damage had been reported.

While demonstrators today focused on Mr. Bush, more protests are scheduled for
Friday and Saturday after the president goes to Warsaw and Slovenia for the last
part of his five-day visit to Europe.

Environmentalists are especially eager to keep the pressure on the Europeans to
sign the Kyoto agreement, which calls for a reduction in greenhouse gases, and
which Mr. Bush opposes.

The president said little during his visit that would suggest he was about to
change his mind on any of the issues that occupied the crowds here. But few of
the marchers expected to have any impact.

Anders Westerstraam, 16, said he had come out because "he just didn't like" Mr.
Bush's policies on abortion, the death penalty and Nafta. But he doubted Mr.
Bush would be swayed by the protest. "I don't think he cares that we are doing
this," he said. "But I'm here to show that we don't like these things."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman in Goteborg yesterday who put her politics and much more
on public display. (Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             537 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about reaction in Puerto Rico
to the decision by the Bush administration to stop bombing practice on the
island of Vieques referred incorrectly in some copies to Velda Gonzalez, a
Puerto Rican lawmaker who was arrested during an April protest. She is a Puerto
Rico senator -- not a territorial one, because the island is a commonwealth.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             538 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Palestinians Say Halting All Violence Is Impossible

BYLINE:  By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, June 26


The Palestinian government believes that Israel is trying "to forestall a return
to meaningful political negotiations" by setting the "unattainable" standard of
a complete halt in violence, according to an internal Palestinian memorandum
that is circulating in advance of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's arrival
here on Wednesday.

The international reports that have laid out a blueprint for resumption of
negotiations require the Palestinians to make a 100 percent effort and do not
mention 100 percent results, says the internal document, which sketches out
talking points for the Palestinians.

"We are confident that such efforts will result in a substantial decrease in the
level of unrest," the memo says, "but we must also stress that
confidence-building measures cannot be held hostage to an unattainable and
unnecessary standard. We cannot agree to become the first country in the world
with no violence or criminals."

After a cease-fire and cooling-off period, the two parties are supposed to
undertake such "confidence-building measures" as a freeze in all settlement
activity by Israel and a crackdown on terrorism, including the incarceration of
terrorists, by the Palestinian Authority.

Those recommendations were made by the international committee headed by former
United States Senator George J. Mitchell and are being used as the working plan
to restore calm.

The Palestinian memo maintains that the cooling-off period should be as short as
possible so that political accomplishments, like a settlement freeze, can help
encourage observance of the cease-fire.

"The Mitchell report recognizes that an end to violence cannot be sustained
without meaningful political negotiations," the memo says. "It is therefore
imperative for our people to see material and tangible progress on the ground as
soon as possible."

The Israeli government does not want to declare a cease-fire prematurely and
wants a long cooling-off period. Officials expect pressure from the American
government to speed up the timetable.

Secretary Powell said this week that he was "anxious to get into the Mitchell
plan." But Prime Minister Ariel Sharon hoped to convince President Bush in
Washington today that haste could be disastrous.

The new morbid joke in Israel this week is "We're doing the ceasing; they're
doing the firing." Mr. Sharon, who is telling American audiences that Israel
cannot exercise military restraint much longer in the face of continuing
Palestinian attacks, told the America-Israel Friendship League in New York on
Monday that he was being congratulated prematurely for a cease-fire that had yet
to occur.

"You know the world is celebrating," he said. "Wherever I go they say, 'Mazel
tov.' It's a cease-fire. But we never had a cease-fire for one day."

After Palestinian gunmen fired on a Jewish enclave in the West Bank city of
Hebron on Monday, Israel once more tightened its blockade around the divided
city. Twelve Palestinians and five Israelis, including a 7-year-old boy, were
wounded in Monday's violence.

In other cities, including Tulkarm, Israeli roadblocks have been pushed aside
only to reappear within days because of shooting attacks.

Jibril Rajoub, the Palestinian chief of preventive security in the West Bank,
said the gunmen were operating in defiance of the cease-fire orders of Yasir
Arafat and called the shooting in Hebron "a lone incident." He said the blockade
was counterproductive.

"I do not think that the continued closures and cordons will encourage the
people interested in calming things down," he said. "Just the opposite."

The Palestinians say Israel is willfully ignoring progress they have made in
helping to restore calm. As Israel sees it, the memo says, "a criminal act, or a
legitimate act of protest, can unilaterally be used by Israel as an excuse to
delay or completely avoid the implementation of its obligations."

The Palestinians say that they want a fixed timetable for moving forward but
that the Israelis want to be able to "reset the clock" on obligations like
completely lifting the blockade of Palestinian towns each time there is "a
security situation on the ground."

That, some Palestinian officials say, empowers those Palestinian militant groups
who seek to disrupt the cease-fire and prevent the return to a peace effort.

Israeli officials retort that the militants should be locked up so that they
will not upset the process.

The Palestinians also reiterate their opposition to anything but a complete
freeze on settlement activity, and their desire for an international monitoring
mechanism -- in which the United States would play a leading role but not the
sole role -- to evaluate compliance with the plan. This is an idea that the
Israelis have rejected.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Palestinian woman and children passed an Israeli armored
personnel carrier yesterday as it blocked the main road into the city of Hebron.
(Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             539 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 27, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Macedonian Leader, Warning of Civil War, Urges Calm

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: SKOPJE, Macedonia, June 26


Tension in Macedonia's capital eased a notch today, even as the president warned
how close the nation is skidding toward civil war and as NATO defended its role
in a mission here that propelled thousands of angry Macedonians onto the streets
on Monday night.

There was no repeat tonight of the huge demonstration on Monday, in which mobs
swelled downtown and fired automatic rifles into the air. Early this evening,
President Boris Trajkovski appealed for calm among the majority Slavic
Macedonians and the minority Albanians, who make up roughly one third of this
nation, the latest part of the former Yugoslavia to be torn by ethnic strife.

For three months, Albanian guerrillas have been capturing territory in the
country's north, unleashing fights not only with security forces but also
between two peoples who have lived as uneasy neighbors for centuries.

"The shooting in the Parliament building could have easily thrown us into civil
war," Mr. Trajkovski said in a televised address from his office, delivered
after rumors that he had fled the city last night. "I can understand the anger,"
he added, "but not bursts of fire."

The anger he referred to spilled out over a town that the Albanian rebels, known
as the National Liberation Army, took earlier this month only six miles from the
capital, which they then threatened to bomb. On Monday, United States soldiers,
part of the NATO peacekeeping force to neighboring Kosovo, helped transport some
320 fighters from the town, Aracinovo, as part of a partial cease-fire deal
aimed at moving the battle away from the capital.

Rear Admiral Craig R. Quigley, a spokesman for the Pentagon, said the angry
crowds of Slavs that confronted the convoy upon its return were threatening
enough that the American commander turned the vehicles around and searched for
alternative routes, receiving help from two unmanned reconnaissance aircraft.
The troops did not reach their home base, Camp Able Sentry near Skopje, until 5
a.m. this morning, nine hours after they had dropped off the Albanian rebels.

Many Macedonians complained that NATO was essentially aiding the rebels, who
were permitted to leave with their weapons, which the American soldiers also
helped transport six miles away from Aracinovo.

In his speech, President Trajkovski accepted responsibility for the government's
role in the cease-fire deal, saying it was a necessary compromise to remove an
immediate threat from Skopje, to restart negotiations to grant greater political
rights to Albanians and to head off a full-scale war.

"Was it a mistake to clear Aracinovo of terrorists?" he asked. "If it is, then I
will take the responsibility. I will accept this guilt."

Much of the crowd's anger on Monday was aimed at NATO, and overnight, graffiti
appeared on a building downtown equating NATO's name with a swastika.

Today, a top NATO official now in Macedonia, Daniel V. Speckhard, defended the
alliance's role, saying it was a one-time offer aimed at bolstering peace.

"We did not let anybody go from Aracinovo," he told reporters. "We facilitated
an understanding and an agreement that was valuable to the government of
Macedonia."

Despite the calm in the capital, fighting continued near Tetovo, some 20 miles
west of Skopje, where a Macedonian policeman was killed by rebels on Monday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Passers-by look through the bullet-shattered window of a shop
damaged during antigovernment riots on Monday in Skopje, Macedonia. Many
Macedonian Slavs were angered by a cease-fire agreement with rebels. (Andrew
Testa for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             540 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 4, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words


A correction in this space yesterday about the length of time that three Bronx
politicians served in prison for their roles in protesting bombing exercises on
the Puerto Rican island of Vieques misspelled the given name of one of them. He
is Councilman Adolfo Carrion Jr., not Adolpho.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             541 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 10, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

No Endorsements From Sharpton Until His Release

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 272 words


Saying he did not want to divert attention from the cause behind the protests
against the Navy bombing exercises in Vieques, P.R., the Rev. Al Sharpton
indicated yesterday that he would wait until after he was released from federal
prison before making any political endorsements.

Once he is let out of the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn, where is he
serving a 90-day sentence for taking part in protests against the bombing, Mr.
Sharpton plans to turn to the local campaigns. His release is expected to occur
on Aug. 15, and in an interview he said he would do radio advertisements for any
candidate he endorses.

Mr. Sharpton's endorsement has been eagerly sought by a wide range of candidates
this year. For a time, some politicians expected he would endorse Fernando
Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, for mayor. Before his imprisonment, though,
he backed off, saying he wanted to set several conditions before giving any
campaign his blessing.

Yesterday's interview was arranged after Mr. Sharpton's onetime cellmate, former
Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, who now is one of his lawyers, said Mr. Sharpton
wanted to discuss several issues. Among the subjects Mr. Sharpton mentioned were
plans to ask each mayoral candidate to meet with him and for them to participate
in a forum on Aug. 23 in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn.

"I want every candidate for mayor to outline how they would propose to govern
the city in a way that the city will not have the racial tensions," he said.

He said the location was selected because this year is the 10th anniversary of
the racially charged disturbances in Crown Heights.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             542 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Tiny Island, but a Cause So Celebre;
From New York to Hollywood, Vieques Has Issues for Everyone

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1612 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14


A small island off the coast of Puerto Rico has captured the national, if not
global, stage and provoked a surprising degree of activism. Remember when most
people couldn't even pronounce Vieques, much less point it out on a map?

The fate of this island's inhabitants -- the Navy, as most people know by now,
practices dropping its bombs there -- has sucked in a hodgepodge of big names
from the political, environmental and entertainment worlds, from Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. and Mario M. Cuomo to the actor Benicio Del Toro and the singer
Ricky Martin.

Protests are held almost daily, to the flashes of cameras. The movement even has
its own pint-size version of the Chicago Seven: the so-called Vieques Four, four
prominent New Yorkers who were carted off to jail for trespassing on Camp
Garcia, the military's bombing range on the island.

The extraordinary thing is that the situation in Vieques is nothing new: the
Navy has been conducting bombing runs there for the past half-century or so.
More than that, the military conducts similar bombing exercises outside nearly
30 communities in the continental United States, almost all of them at a closer
range to residents.

Even those who have taken up the cause of Vieques are astonished by all the
attention this obscure little island is generating. "Three months ago, if you
had told me that Vieques would get worldwide attention, I'd have said you were
nuts," said Ken Sunshine, a media consultant and political operative for
opponents of the bombing. "Who would have thought?"

The question, then, is why Vieques and why now?

Its liberal supporters lend Vieques an element of "radical chic," the social
phenomenon that Tom Wolfe sneeringly identified more than a quarter-century ago:
there's a privileged class taking up the cause of a more downtrodden one. But
there's more to it than that.

Vieques, simply, is an activist's dream, offering something for everyone. It has
the destruction of an ecological system, along with claims that the people are
being exposed to toxic chemicals, which environmentalists are seizing upon. It
has the specter of American colonialism that human rights advocates and Puerto
Rican nationalists are pointing to. It has the suggestion of racism that civil
rights activists and Hispanic leaders are up in arms over.

The cause has even been embraced by some more conservative politicians, like
Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a Republican.

To top it all off, the issue has an ideal boogeyman in the United States
military, which has been relatively quiet about making its case for the bombing
exercises.

Douglas Brinkley, a professor of history and the director of the Eisenhower
Center at the University of New Orleans, says the military is making matters
worse for itself by appearing to dismiss a seemingly reasonable request that it
find somewhere else to drop its bombs.

"The intransigence of the U.S. military comes off as arrogance," he said.
"They're flipping off an entire hemisphere in Monroe Doctrine fashion."

To further complicate matters for the military, its supporters have made some
incendiary comments that have heightened suspicion and resentment on the other
side.

"I come down to the idea where I don't see where Puerto Rico should get any
favorite treatment over the rest of these people," Representative James V.
Hansen, a Republican from Utah, said recently. "What have they done to get it?
They sit down there on welfare and very few of them paying taxes, got a
sweetheart deal. I just don't really see the equity in it, but maybe I don't
understand it."

The comments of Mr. Hansen, a senior member of the House Armed Services
Committee, may be the most extreme that have been uttered. But even President
Bush, who tried to broker a compromise on the bombing issue, aroused deep
hostility when he referred to Puerto Rico as the United States' "friend and
neighbor." The island's residents and their supporters quickly pointed out that
Puerto Ricans are, in fact, citizens of the United States.

The center of the Vieques movement is, of course, on the island itself. But some
of the loudest protests are coming from New York City, with its large
concentration of Puerto Rican residents and its long tradition of liberal
activism.

New York produced the Vieques Four: Adolfo Carrion Jr., a City Councilman;
Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx County Democratic chairman; Jose Rivera, a state
assemblyman; and the Rev. Al Sharpton.

Perhaps most important, there is a mayoral race under way in the city and a
gubernatorial race looming statewide, prompting politicians of all stripes to
court New York's sizable Puerto Rican population.

But what has been most surprising is the degree of interest the rest of the
nation has shown in this issue, from the president on down. No doubt part of the
interest has been heightened by reports of protesters being roughed up and
hauled off to jail.

Passions are running so high that the protesters are resorting to 1960's-style
imagery. One of their Web sites features slogans like "We Shall Not Forget the
Political Prisoners of Vieques" and "Urgent Call for Civil Disobedience." The
site also includes photos of a Puerto Rican child hurling a rock at the military
installation on Vieques.

The oratory is no less blistering. "We ask the court to recall that our nation
was conceived in the civil disobedience that preceded the Revolutionary War,"
Mr. Cuomo told a judge this month in his role as a defense lawyer for Robert F.
Kennedy Jr. and Dennis Rivera, the labor leader, both arrested during protests
on the island.

Jacqueline Jackson, the wife of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, made a similar plea
before she was sentenced to 10 days in jail for her role in a recent protest at
Camp Garcia.

"When I fight for civil rights, social justice and world peace, I am acting out
the American dream," Mrs. Jackson told a judge. "As both a mother and a
political prisoner," she added, "I ask you to restore my rights as a citizen."

The political furor shows no signs of abating. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of
New York traveled to Puerto Rico today to meet with two of the imprisoned
protesters, Mr. Kennedy and Dennis Rivera.

Even Governor Pataki, a politician who is usually stiffly reserved, has gotten
into the act. "No mas bombas," he recently protested during a speech in Spanish
Harlem.

One of the more remarkable developments to come out of all this is the
solidarity that seems to have arisen among Hispanics, who are a notably
splintered group. Vieques has helped galvanize Hispanics of all sorts, not just
Puerto Ricans.

United States Representative Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey who is
of Cuban descent, attributes this to the condescension shown by the military and
some of its supporters toward the protesters. It smacks of the colonialist
attitude that the United States has long been accused of displaying toward Latin
America, he said.

Mr. Menendez said the Navy's behavior "ignited a firestorm that is much bigger
than the Puerto Rican community" and led many Hispanics to conclude, "that could
be me next." The issue "is about respect," he added. "It is about dignity. It is
about recognizing the contributions of Hispanics to this country."

As with all political causes, Vieques has its share of facts and distortions.
One major claim being made by the protesters is that noise from the shelling is
causing heart problems among Vieques residents. But a recent report prepared by
the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health cast serious doubt on that claim.

Another claim is that residents of Vieques have a higher incidence of cancer
than normal. But a report compiled by the Navy using government data shows that
the cancer rate on Vieques from 1973 to the mid-1990's was about the same as the
cancer rate for the rest of Puerto Rico during that period. Not only that, the
incidence of cancer on Vieques was roughly half the average rate in the rest of
the United States during that period.

One thing lost in the furor is the fact that the Navy actually has a case worth
considering. It says the island is an irreplaceable training ground for several
reasons. First, the air space above it is free from commercial airline traffic,
meaning that Navy pilots can simulate bombing runs and dogfights at the altitude
and speed that would be used in combat. Second, the waters immediately around
the island are not used for commercial ships and are deep enough for Navy
submarines and ships to navigate. Third, the island's topography is ideal for
amphibious landings and parachute exercises.

Finally, the Navy points out, the military conducts bombing exercises much
closer to other communities within the United States with little or no protest.
For example, where the bombing range in Vieques is 9.5 miles from the nearest
community, the Navy says, an Army artillery range in Lawton, Okla., is within
1.5 miles of nearby residents.

"One of our frustrations has been the distortion of facts," one senior Navy
official said. "It has unnecessarily alarmed the people of Vieques."

It remains to be seen whether Vieques fades into the background the way other
recent popular causes, like protecting the rain forest or saving the whales,
have. But neither side seems willing to give in any time soon, even though the
Bush administration has said it would stop the bombings by 2003. The opponents
of the bombings have vowed to step up the protests until the Navy pulls out,
while the Navy's supporters claim that suspension of the exercises would
undermine military readiness. As long as that standoff persists, people are
likely to be engaged.

"It has all the elements," said Terry McAuliffe, the chairman of the Democratic
National Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A protest at Camp Garcia in Vieques. Even those who have taken
up the island's cause are astonished by all the public attention. (Associated
Press)(pg. 25); Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in San Juan, Puerto Rico,
yesterday before visiting jailed protesters. (Associated Press)(pg. 26)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             543 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Mideast Maze: Steps and Missteps

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 202 words


To the Editor:

Your July 26 front-page article "Quest for Mideast Peace: How and Why It Failed"
and your July 28 editorial "Looking Back at Camp David," which suggest that
Yasir Arafat was not the only one to blame for the failure of Camp David, miss
the forest for the trees.

Of course not every misstep was made by Yasir Arafat.

Of course the timing for the final-status talks may not have been perfect. But
this does not diminish the reality that Ehud Barak offered the Palestinians a
state of their own on 97 percent of the West Bank with a capital in East
Jerusalem, to which Mr. Arafat said no. And instead of choosing peace, Mr.
Arafat orchestrated a wave of violence that has brought Israeli-Palestinian
relations back to ground zero.

Your news article said that contrary to the feeling of some, "Mr. Barak did not
offer Mr. Arafat the moon at Camp David." In fact, for Mr. Arafat, the moon
meant an independent state plus the right of return to Israeli land for all
Palestinians displaced since Israel's 1948 war of independence. Mr. Arafat knew
full well that such a demand would put a stake through the heart of the Oslo
process.

CHARLES E. SCHUMER
U.S. Senator from New York
Washington, July 31, 2001

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             544 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 8, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Italy Holding a New Jersey Woman, 21, Snared in the Genoa Fracas

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 518 words

DATELINE: WARREN, N.J., Aug. 7


Susanna Thomas called home this morning from the Italian jail where she has been
held since her arrest outside Genoa on July 22, hours after the end of the
summit meeting of the major industrialized nations and the street disorder that
swirled around it.

It was the first time her parents, Cathy and Rick, had heard her voice since she
called them shortly before her arrest, saying she was leaving Genoa and going to
the beach with some friends and then heading to France to catch a flight home.

The young woman's call today gave her parents and their older daughter, Helen, a
welcome 10-minute respite in their two-and-a-half-week ordeal.

"She sounded scared," Mrs. Thomas said. "And she was concerned about the others
arrested with her. She feels they're all innocent."

Instead of preparing for her senior year at Bryn Mawr College in Pennsylvania,
Ms. Thomas, 21, described as a devout Quaker and an ardent foe of the death
penalty, is facing a possible 15-year sentence.

The charge against her is conspiring with a group to commit devastation and
plundering during the Genoa meeting, said the family's lawyer, Dick Atkins of
Philadelphia. Mr. Atkins called the charge ludicrous.

He said that Ms. Thomas, who had e-mailed her parents that she was avoiding the
rowdy demonstrations in Genoa, left town afterward with 25 members of an
Austrian protest group called Publix Theatre. Most were on a bus, the lawyer
said; Ms. Thomas was in a car.

After the arrest, police confiscated two penknives and a black bra from the car,
Mr. Atkins said. He said Italian authorities were apparently trying to establish
a link between Ms. Thomas and an anarchist group, the Black Bloc, whose members
wear black. The group clashed with the police in Genoa.

New Jersey's senators, Robert G. Torricelli and Jon S. Corzine, have written to
the American charge d'affaires in Rome, William P. Pope, asking him to intercede
with the Italian authorities.

Ms. Thomas's imprisonment is a jarring end to a semester of studying art,
theology and politics at the Jesuit University in Paris, with some side trips to
meet with Quaker groups and determine if there is common ground between their
church, with its tenet of nonviolence, and more radical groups promoting social
activism in Europe. She had hoped to develop that theme into her senior thesis
at Bryn Mawr, where she is majoring in urban planning.

The Thomas family dining room is now a makeshift communications hub. The parents
have sent hundreds of e-mails to Quakers throughout the country and Europe
appealing for prayers for their daughter. Boxes are filled with replies and
copies of a brief biography of their daughter and other documents describing her
devotion to community service, including a year's duty with AmeriCorps from 1997
to 1998 in the southeastern United States. The fruit and vegetable drawers from
the refrigerator sit on a dining room table, overflowing with paperwork.

"I'm concerned about our child's safety," Mrs. Thomas said. "But I'm also
saddened and concerned about all the people involved. I'm just so sorry this
whole thing turned out so badly."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susanna Thomas of Warren, N.J., was jailed after the Genoa
talks. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             545 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 17, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jailing at End, Politics Waits for Sharpton

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 614 words


In his last interview before ending a 90-day term in a federal prison for civil
disobedience, the Rev. Al Sharpton said that he would plunge into the city's
mayoral election within a week from his release today, probably by endorsing
Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, and actively campaigning on his
behalf.

But Mr. Sharpton said he would not accept an invitation from Representative
Charles E. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat, to join a coalition of black Democrats --
including C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president -- who are to
endorse Mr. Ferrer in Harlem this afternoon. In a 45-minute interview at the
Metropolitan Detention Center in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, on Wednesday, Mr.
Sharpton said that if he acted, he would make his endorsement on his own, so as
not to dilute the impact of his decision.

Characteristically, Mr. Sharpton held open the possibility that he still might
stay neutral in the primary, or that he might endorse Mark Green, the city's
public advocate. By suggesting that his decision was not final, Mr. Sharpton,
who was jailed for protesting the Navy's bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican
island of Vieques, in effect guaranteed that the spotlight would stay on him
during his first days out of jail.

"I've been lobbied here by everybody," Mr. Sharpton declared, as he ticked off
the names of the politicians who had tried to see him. "One thing, when you're
an inmate, you don't turn away visitors. You'll see anybody. I don't care. They
told me Bloomberg wanted to come and I said, 'Hey, you don't exactly become
selective under these circumstances.' "

Still, Mr. Sharpton strongly suggested that his mind was made up. He said he
would not support Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, whom Mr. Sharpton
characterized as too conservative, or Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller, whom
Mr. Sharpton criticized for being slow to appreciate what he has contended are
police abuses of blacks and Hispanics in some parts of New York.

Beyond that, "there's not much difference between Ferrer and Green," Mr.
Sharpton said.

In the interview -- the 40th he had granted in jail, in what Mr. Sharpton
asserted was a jailhouse record -- Mr. Sharpton said that he expected that both
Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Green would greet him when he was released. A spokesman for
Mr. Ferrer said that the Bronx borough president would indeed be there, but a
spokesman for Mr. Green said that he had a conflict and would be unable to
attend.

Mr. Sharpton signaled two shifts in positions in his approach to the mayoral
race.

He said he would no longer insist on all the candidates' showing up at a debate
he would sponsor. And he said he would no longer insist, as a condition for his
support, that Mr. Ferrer endorse a black candidate for Bronx borough president;
a black candidate for city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., the former
Board of Education president; and Norman Siegel, the former executive director
of the New York Civil Liberties Union, who is running for public advocate.

Mr. Ferrer is seeking to become New York's first Puerto Rican mayor, and his
supporters had pressed Mr. Sharpton to endorse Mr. Ferrer as part of an effort
to create a black-Latino coalition in New York.

Mr. Sharpton -- who, after losing more than 30 pounds in jail, cuts almost a
trim figure -- said he has planned a whirlwind weekend of rallies, marches,
speeches, press interviews and church appearances to mark his release.

He said that he needed to spend his time reacquainting himself with a political
scene that seemed a bit distant to him. Not that he seemed worried. "In a couple
of days, I'll know the rhythm of the street more than most," Mr. Sharpton said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Al Sharpton, interviewed at the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn on Wednesday. He is to be released today. (Ruby
Washington/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             546 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 31, 2001 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rancor and Powell's Absence Cloud Racism Parley

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1260 words

DATELINE: DURBAN, South Africa, Aug. 30


The presidents flew into this port city from across the continent today, joining
6,000 delegates from around the world to deplore prejudice, ethnic hatreds and
intolerance. But they were all overshadowed by the one man who was not here.

On the eve of a weeklong United Nations conference on racism and discrimination,
much of the attention was on Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who is skipping
the conference because American officials believe that Israel is being unfairly
smeared here as a racist state.

The State Department announced this week that only mid-level diplomats would
take part in the conference, which opens on Friday, because of American
objections to proposed language in conference texts. Some documents describe the
Israeli presence in the West Bank and Gaza as "a new kind of apartheid."

The day quickly degenerated into rancor as Palestinians and Jews staged
competing protests and Arab participants were accused of harassing Jewish
delegates.

A group of singing and shouting Palestinian supporters disrupted a news
conference this morning held by members of Jewish civic organizations who had
gathered to complain that some Arab groups were distributing offensive
literature, including posters of Jews with big noses and bloody fangs.

American civil rights leaders arriving here criticized the Bush administration
for deciding not to send Secretary Powell to the conference, and for trying to
block serious discussion of reparations for the descendants of African slaves.

Questions about whether Israel should be condemned for its treatment of
Palestinians and whether the West should pay reparations for slavery and
colonialism have roiled conference preparations for months.

In an interview this week, Mary Robinson, the United Nations high commissioner
for human rights, emphasized that the language about Israel and compensation for
slavery and colonialism was preliminary and would be eliminated if consensus
could not be reached.

Today, Mrs. Robinson condemned the harassment of members of Jewish groups, who
have been meeting along with thousands of other delegates from nongovernmental
organizations in the days leading up to the conference.

"I have been concerned to learn that there have been unpleasant exchanges, in
particular, personal, unpleasant exchanges to Jewish groups that have come to
participate," said Mrs. Robinson, who is the secretary general of the
conference. "This is a conference about victims of racism and discrimination.
It's a conference to move us forward to tolerance, dignity and respect."

The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who arrived this morning, warned that the debate over
the Middle East threatened to eclipse the conference, which is intended to
highlight discrimination in all forms -- from concerns about racism in the
criminal justice system in the United States, to the plight of women in
Afghanistan, to modern-day slavery in Sudan.

Mr. Jackson and other civil rights leaders here including Representative John
Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, and Wade J. Henderson, director of the
Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, said it was a mistake not to send
Secretary Powell. The delegation will be led instead by E. Michael Southwick,
the deputy assistant secretary of state for international organizations.

But Mr. Jackson said he and others agreed that the language of the proposed
declaration against racism seemed to target Israel unnecessarily, particularly
given the dismal human rights records of many countries participating in the
conference.

"The issue of racism is too big to reduce it to the controversy about the Middle
East," Mr. Jackson said in an interview. "One can be against the settlements,
against the assassination of leaders and not have to label Israel as a racist
state. If one goes into labeling, there are a lot of labels to go around."

The conference is expected to draw 15 heads of state and government, most from
Africa, with some notable exceptions, including Fidel Castro of Cuba. The
Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, arrived today along with the leaders of
Rwanda, Togo, the Congo Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina, South African
officials said. Israel, like the United States, is sending a mid-level
delegation.

The delegates from different countries will work mostly behind closed doors,
trying to hammer out a declaration against racism, discrimination, xenophobia
and other forms of intolerance. Another group will work on the language of an
action plan to remedy discrimination. But if the disagreements that erupted
among the civic groups today are any indication, the going will not be easy.

The members of the Jewish civic groups who gathered under a white tent were
interrupted in the middle of their news conference by Palestinian supporters,
who shook their fists and waved banners that said, "End Israeli Apartheid."

The debate spilled outside the tent where Jewish groups started singing, "All we
are saying, is give peace a chance." The Palestinians countered with, "We Shall
Overcome" and "Free, free Palestine!"

"We all came here to fight racism, but what we've experienced starts raising
questions to me about the validity of this whole conference," said Karen
Pollock, who came to the conference as a representative of Jews from Britain.
"I've ended up spending the last two days explaining why I have the right to
exist, why my identity is important. It has been an unfair and corrupt process.
What's the point of trying to reconcile anything?"

Khader Shirkat, the director of the Palestinian Law Society, who marched with
his fellow Palestinians, acknowledged that many Arab countries practice
discrimination within their own borders. But he said Israel deserved to be
singled out.

"We're here to express our solidarity with other groups still living under other
occupations and to get rid of the last vestige of colonialism, the Israeli
apartheid state," said Mr. Shirkat, who came to the conference from Jerusalem.
"There is racism in many Arab countries. But Israel is the one that is
threatening international security and peace. We are talking about a racist
state, institutional racism. That is why Israel has to be singled out."

Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California, said such language appeared
in several of the proposed conference texts and it was that language that
persuaded the American government not to send Secretary Powell.

"I was hoping it could be a serious conference, looking at the past in a general
sense and not singling out a single country," said Mr. Lantos, a Holocaust
survivor and a member of the American team that tried to eliminate the charged
language during talks in Geneva last month. "To single out the state of Israel
as the only guilty party with respect to discrimination is an outrage."

Mrs. Robinson said she did not believe that the divisions, enormous as they
might seem, would prevent the conference from succeeding.

Indeed, many delegates from civic organizations including Africans, Latin
Americans, women's groups, Gypsies and Asians have described the networking
between the groups as incredibly empowering.

"It's that rich texture that influences me, not the discordant voices," Mrs.
Robinson said earlier this week. "Of course, there are discordant voices when
you've got such very big issues to deal with.

"The huge opportunity of Durban is to set down the values for a new century in a
divided world," she said. "It's not the end of the road. It's the beginning.
It's the beginning of really being energized to address racism. I'm told I'm far
too optimistic. I don't know. Let's see."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A pro-Palestinian demonstrator shouted anti-Israeli slogans
yesterday in Durban, South Africa, as delegates gathered for the opening of the
United Nations conference on racism and discrimination. (Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             547 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 8, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FRONTIER;
A Pakistani City Disapproves, but Mildly

BYLINE:  By BARRY BEARAK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: PESHAWAR, Pakistan, Monday, Oct. 8


News of the allied air attack may have burst across the United States, but here
in this city near the Afghanistan border -- considered Pakistan's most likely
spot for violent reaction -- it traveled slowly, and mostly stayed indoors.

One exception was a midnight protest of 400 students outside the Peshawar
University campus.

"Bush is a dog!" young men chanted as they punched their fists through the air.
"Down with America!" Britain and its prime minister, Tony Blair, received equal
denunciation.

As the young men returned to their hostels after their 45-minute outburst, they
picked up stones and pelted signboards and street lamps.

The first bulletins about the air raids had come shortly after 9 p.m. By then,
most people were already off the dimly lighted streets of this city of more than
two million. Some trouble was expected.

But in hundreds of cities and towns across the country, supporters of the
Taliban have been protesting regularly since they learned that Pakistan would
assist the coalition against the Afghan government. Of those cities, Peshawar,
near the border and swollen with refugees from Afghanistan in recent years, is
one of the most volatile.

In one effort to control such demonstrations, the Pakistani government placed
under house arrest Mullah Fazlur Rehman, a fiery orator who heads a faction of
the religious party Jamiat Ulema Islam.

Mullah Rehman has inveighed against the United States, on Friday calling it "the
No. 1 terrorist state in the world."

But Sunday night the area around the Madani mosque, one hub for the party, was,
like most of Peshawar, tranquil. Men stood outside small shops selling fresh
juice and kebabs. They spoke of the attack. They disapproved of it. Some even
condemned it.

But they showed no inclination toward outbursts of any sort until TV cameras
arrived in quantity.

Then, as if shamed into remonstrance by the witnessing lenses, a few dozen men
congregated for some ritualized anger, alternating shouts of "Death to America"
with "God is Great."

This brought the police into the streets in force. But their commander seemed
undecided how to deploy, arranging his men in a line blocking the street, then
marching them forward and to the roadside.

Bystanders looked on nonplussed. "It's wrong on the part of America, just
wrong," said Muhammad Sadar, 21, as he lingered under the mammoth Pepsi sign at
Haroon's General Store. "The Third World War might start with this act by
America. The hate against America is going to increase." Around him, other men
nodded in apparent assent.

As dawn broke today, and hawkers began to sell the popular Pashto and Urdu
language newspapers, many heard the news for the first time.

Rehmat Hadi, 38, was stunned by the headline: "Attack on Afghanistan."

"America ought to be ashamed," he said. "Afghanistan is a nation already
destroyed. This is cowardly."

Down the street, metal shutters were being pulled up, stores opening.  Haji Amir
Zada, an old man with thick glasses, seemed to be wandering about, looking for
listeners. "There was a prophecy I heard when I was a small boy," he said. "The
first was that plagues will strike all of India. The next was that men will wear
the clothes of women. And the last one forecast the end of the world and it said
that a great war will begin in the West."

In a small squatter camp near ponds of raw sewage, newly arrived Afghan refugees
fanned the embers of tiny fires, making morning tea. Most of the 20 or so
families were from Kabul. They had left two weeks ago, fleeing an imminent
American attack. Now, nearly a half day after that assault, they had no
knowledge that what they feared had come.

"It has happened?" asked Agha Gul, carrying a child in his arms. "It is good
then that we are here or maybe I would need to speak to you from the grave."

As word spread, there were no signs of anger. The families were destitute and
too hungry to think of much beyond their immediate troubles. Mothers with babies
and old women shuffled from their flimsy, patchwork tents to beg.

"Look at my child," said one mother, cradling an infant named Gulbaz. The boy
seemed near the end of a prolonged wither. His legs had shrunk into reeds. He
had the skeletal look of starvation.

"Life is a tragedy anyway," his mother said.

Then, asking for an answer as well as money, she inquired, "Isn't that so?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers gathered this morning in Peshawar, Pakistan, for news
of the allied attack on Afghanistan. (Bob Nickelsberg for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             548 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: AN OVERVIEW: OCT. 8, 2001;
A Scaling Back, Anger in the Streets and American Determination

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 682 words


Day 2 of the bombing campaign in Afghanistan looked a lot like Day 1, but on a
smaller scale.

The United States attacked more targets like airfields, terrorist camps and
Defense Ministry offices. But it did so with less than half the number of
bombers, fighter planes and Tomahawk cruise missiles that were used on Sunday at
the start of this operation to uproot Osama bin Laden's terrorist network and
unseat the Taliban government that shields him.

In part, the scaling back reflected caution at the Pentagon, where officials saw
no profit in blowing things up without a clear sense of what they were
accomplishing. And they had yet to analyze fully the successes or failures of
the first day's raids.

UNCERTAIN DAMAGE -- A preliminary assessment of attacks on 31 targets showed
gains, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said, but it was not certain if the
missiles and planes had destroyed the Taliban's command posts or fully disabled
its air defenses. Nor was the casualty count even remotely clear. The only
numbers came from Taliban officials, who estimated the death toll from Sunday's
raids at between 8 and 20.

Once more, the Bush administration counseled Americans to recognize that they
are in the antiterrorism campaign for the long haul. "There's no silver bullet,"
Mr. Rumsfeld said, and the effort to stamp out terrorism worldwide will "likely
have to be sustained for a period of years, not weeks or months."

It was already obvious, though, that some things were taking place that had
never been seen before. United States soldiers were in Uzbekistan in Central
Asia, the first time that had happened on territory that was once part of the
Soviet Union. Also a first was the notion of NATO forces from Europe crossing
the Atlantic to defend the American homeland. But that is about to occur,
officials said, with the dispatching of five NATO surveillance planes that will
circle American skies, freeing United States planes to carry out missions
elsewhere.

For some European nations, one advantage in this is that they can contribute to
the war on terrorism without attacking Afghanistan themselves. Perhaps even more
than Washington, they are keenly sensitive to accusations in some Muslim
countries that this campaign amounts to an assault on Islam.

MUSLIM PROTESTS -- Anger was evident on the streets of many Muslim countries. In
Quetta, in western Pakistan, thousands of marchers chanted anti-American slogans
and set fire to shops and cinemas. In the Gaza Strip, 2,000 Palestinians shouted
support for Mr. bin Laden.

The Gaza protest took an extraordinary turn when Yasir Arafat's police force
fired on demonstrators, killing at least two people, including a 13-year-old
boy. Rarely has the Palestinian Authority shot at its own population. It was a
sign of how much Mr. Arafat wanted to avoid any echo of Palestinian celebrations
right after the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. Also, he
apparently did not want to be seen as backing what could prove to be the wrong
horse in Mr. bin Laden. He supported Saddam Hussein in the 1991 gulf war, a
miscalculation that greatly tested the limits of Mr. Arafat's formidable skills
as a political survivor.

AMERICAN RESOLVE -- For Americans, the bombing campaign was a test of their
resolve. The stock markets held fairly steady. But no one could shake the fear
that America had not seen the last of terrorism. The climate was such that even
at the Liberty Bell, that symbol of freedom, visitors were searched with metal
detectors.

Tom Ridge took up his duties as the nation's first director of homeland
security, and Washington signaled in another way that domestic life had changed:
Federal agents were ordered to spend their time pursuing leads to prevent
another wave of terrorism.

As if tensions were not high enough, a second Florida man showed signs of having
been exposed to anthrax. He worked near a man who died of the disease on Friday.
Suddenly, government officials sounded less positive that they were dealing with
isolated episodes and more equivocal about the possibility of terrorism.   CLYDE
HABERMAN

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             549 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistanis Take to Streets Over U.S. Strikes on Afghanistan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anger over the American air strikes on Afghanistan swept
Pakistan yesterday. In Peshawar, a demonstrator caught fire as an American flag
went up in flames. The protester was taken to a hospital. The police fired tear
gas to control the crowds, some of which numbered up to 1,000. There were
larger, more violent protests in Quetta. Page B9. (Ruth Fremson/The New York
Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company
