
                               1 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                      Nelson Daily News (British Columbia)

                           November 23, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Raid could be a riot: Canada's premier adventure sport race wants to set up stop
here for 2005

BYLINE: Darren Davidson, Nelson Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718  words


Touting economic spin off and more nation-wide exposure for the city, the
organizer of Canada's premier outdoor adventure race series made his pitch to a
collection of Nelson businessman and politicians Monday.

The race, called the Raid the North series, has been running in cities and towns
in B.C., Ontario and Quebec for the past eight years. Jeff Langford is the
president of Frontier Adventure Racing, the Toronto-based company that runs the
event.

With a slide show featuring colourful images of hundred-metre cliff rappels,
mountain bikers forging whitewater rivers and canoeists hiking their boats
through thick bush, Langford highlighted the advantages the city might find in
hosting a Raid The North race.

"You get between 300 and 500 people here for a weekend, buying gas and rooms and
groceries and going to restaurants and pubs and buying whatever they need for
the weekend. But the more important thing is the long-term adventure tourism
marketing."

Through the year, Raid the North promoters attend a variety of trade shows
across the country, some in the U.S., which Langford says generates a lot of
exposure.

"But more so it's the hundreds of people who come here and have the experience
of a lifetime. There's a lot of spin off from that perspective."

Like a mini-Eco Challenge, the Raid the North event is a multi-sport team-based
race that sees competitors trek, mountain bike and paddle for 36 straight hours
through a non-marked 150-kilometre course, navigating with maps and compasses.
The race lasts an entire weekend.

"It's about exploration and navigating through areas you wouldn't normally go,"
Langford told the crowd.

"It's one of the toughest things that competitors do in their lives, in a place
they'll never forget."

The age of the average Raid The North competitor is 34. Most are white collar
workers who make between $50,000 to $70,000 a year.

Raid the North events typically draw around 30 or 40 teams of four and requires
as many as 70 volunteers as well as three or four paid locals who act as
liaisons and organizers. Langford is hoping to find a few locals who might be
interested in tackling the job, sometime before Christmas. Registration fee for
the race is $1,600 a team.

The race series organizing team looks for no-cost accommodations, race support
services and free use of a banquet facility, a request that some of the
businessman in the crowd showed concern over, noting that the Nelson business
sector already gives a lot to community events, as do its residents.

Langford countered that in addition to the economic spin-offs, the race provides
an opportunity for new investment in the community. While the Raid the North
race would move on to other communities the year after, Langford pointed out
that many centres in which the series has stopped now have regularly scheduled
adventure races of their own built around the inaugural event. Raid the North
has stopped in Kimberley, Revelstoke, Fernie and Penticton.

One of the six organizers of the city's Summit to Summit race voiced concern
over the Raid the North plan, saying that the series might infringe on the
locally-built race, which has happened for the last five years. Gym owner Ed
Natyshak dissuaded Langford's effort, instead pushing the organizer to bring a
bigger event here, like Raid The North Extreme, an annual six-day race that last
year was the adventure race circuit's world championship.

Langford says that's a possibility, but something that likely wouldn't happen
for another three years.

Adventure race competitor Randy Richmond argued that Raid the North and the
Summit to Summit are two "completely different things" and feels the bigger race
-- which also holds a small eight-hour event for weekend warrior types -- would
only serve to enhance the Summit to Summit's exposure.

"As we all know, this is an outdoor community that is well known, but not
universally recognized," Mayor Dave Elliott said.

"It seems to me this is another way to expand that kind of exposure much wider,
and perhaps to start an outdoor festival we could have in the spring or fall. It
brings a purpose to what we are, and brings other people to what we are."

Langford is hoping the city will commit to a Raid The North race for the 2005
scheduled. That's a decision that will have to be made before the end of the
year.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Darren Davidson, Nelson Daily News; Frontier Adventure Racing president
Jeff Langford talks with Gerick Cycle and Sports owner Ross McNamara about the
possibility of scheduling a Raid the North race here in Nelson next year. The
race could attract as many as 300 people here for a weekend. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Business

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2004 Nelson Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                              June 7, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Social justice trek of 1935 remembered

BYLINE: Canwest News Service

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 312  words


Dozens of people gathered in downtown Vancouver on Sunday to mark the 75th
anniversary of an important and tragic piece of Canadian history.

Organizers of the event unveiled a plaque marking the anniversary of the On to
Ottawa Trek -- the departure of more than 1,000 unemployed men on rail boxcars
to the nation's capital to protest meagre conditions and wages of 20 cents a day
in government work camps.

The trekkers left Vancouver aboard Canadian Pacific Railway freight cars on June
3, 1935, and gathered support in Kamloops, and Calgary. But they were stopped by
police in Regina on orders from Prime Minister R.B. Bennett.

Police arrested some of the organizers on July 1, sparking the Regina Riot,
Canada's most violent episode in the 10 years of the Great Depression. One
police officer and one trekker died while hundreds were injured in the four-hour
melee.

Social activists point to the riot as the turning point in the fight for
progressive social changes in Canada -- Bennett's government was humiliated in
the election three months later and many of the trekkers' demands were enacted
by the succeeding Liberal government of William Lyon Mackenzie King.

David Yorke has met with many of the trekkers, their wives and children. He said
their accounts of the clash between RCMP and Regina riot police and the 300
trekkers and 1,000 Regina residents at an outdoor meeting at Market Square that
night was shocking.

"Just after the meeting started, the police simply charged in," said Yorke.

"They came in with baseball bats, leaded truncheons. They were armed. There were
mounted police assembled. The meeting was dispersed and a riot ensued. Tear gas
was used and police actually opened fire on the protesters," he said.

A delegation of homelessness activists left Vancouver for Ottawa Sunday night to
press the federal government for a commitment to fund social housing.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                                 Bath Chronicle

                             August 25, 2008 Monday

Spencer leads England to nations cup triumph

SECTION: Pg. 1100

LENGTH: 385 words


Bath Rugby Ladies' England captain Catherine Spencer led England Women to a
Nations Cup triumph last Sunday, adding to a list of honours which already
included the 2008 RBS Six Nations title and the European Championship crown, in
a 43-9 win over Canada at Esher.

Clifton full-back Danielle Waterman and Henley prop Rochelle Clark grabbed a
brace of touchdowns apiece in a seven-try romp against Canada, following on from
a tight 17-14 win over the USA last Friday evening.

England head coach Gary Street said: "I'm immensely proud of the players because
to come through three games in six days and win a tournament is a fantastic
achievement.

"The game against Canada was tough, but the second-half especially highlighted
everything we have been working towards over the last 12 months.

"The players demonstrated their determination and passion and I'm delighted for
them."

England led 12-9 at half-time, but then, with vice-captain and fly-half Katy
McLean controlling the game superbly, they ran riot.

Canada initially pushed ahead in the early stages and were rewarded with a
third-minute Anna Schnell penalty.

Saracens flanker Maggie Alphonsi and Waterman grabbed tries for England in the
first half, while Canada fly-half Anna Schnell kicked three penalties.

She added a fourth in the second half, but Clarke, Wasps wing Michaela
Staniford, Clarke again, Waterman and  substitute Kat Merchant all grabbed
second-half tries to polish the Canadians off.

England: 15 Danielle Waterman (Clifton), 14 Charlotte Barras (Saracens), 13
Emily Scarratt (Lichfield), 12 Kim Oliver (Clifton), Alice Richardson), 11
Michaela Staniford (Wasps), 10 Katy McLean (Darlington), 9 Amy Rurner
(Richmond),  1 Rochelle Clark (Henley), 2 Amy Garnett (Saracens), 3 Katy Storie
(Blaydon Team Northumbria), 4 Tamara Taylor (Darlington Mowden Park Sharks), 5
Joanna McGilchrist (Wasps), 6 Sarah Hunter (Lichfield), 7 Margaret Alphonsi
(Saracens), 8 Catherine Spencer (Bath, capt).

Replacements: 16 Emma Layland (Richmond) for Garnett (64mins); 17 Sophie Hemming
(Clifton) for Storie (64mins); 18 Natalie Binstead (Wasps) for Taylor (73mins);
19 Karen Jones (Richmond) for Hunter (45mins); 20 Alice Richardson (Richmond)
for Oliver (41mins), 21 Kat Merchant (Worcester) for Barras (68mins); 22
Francesca Matthews (Richmond for Staniford (69mins).

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 66


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday

Allegations of electoral fraud testing donors' patience

BYLINE: CAMPBELL CLARK

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; FOREIGN AID; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


There is a new danger to add to earthquake, cholera and election riots. The
world may succumb to Haiti fatigue.

It could be felt yesterday, in the broad warnings from Canada and other
countries that Haiti's current president, René Préval, had better take steps to
stop the election riots rocking the country.

In between the lines was a suggestion that Mr. Préval should convince his
hand-picked candidate, Jude Célestin, to drop out of a runoff election scheduled
for January - to calm Haitians who believe that vote-rigging cheated popular
singer Michel Martelly out of a place on the ballot.

The Jan. 12 earthquake that devastated the country also brought some hope that
the world would galvanize to help Haiti rebuild. But even before this week's
election riots, Canada and other donor nations felt the chief obstacle to
progress was the lack of a functioning government that could deliver basic
services inside the country, or help organize rebuilding.

The prospect that the next Haitian government will not be just weak but deeply
tainted will hamper reconstruction efforts, and could lead donor countries to
question their commitment.

The riots were triggered when Haiti's electoral commission announced that Mr.
Célestin narrowly beat Mr. Martelly for second place in the first round of
presidential elections, putting Mr. Célestin into a runoff with former first
lady Mirlande Manigat.

Many Haitians believe Mr. Célestin bested Mr. Martelly only by fraud. The U.S.
embassy in Haiti hinted as much, too, saying the results were "inconsistent
with" vote counts seen by observers.

In Ottawa, Foreign Affairs Minister Lawrence Cannon said Canada's ambassador to
Haiti spoke to Mr. Préval on Wednesday and "urged the President to make
decisions to restore stability and a smooth democratic transition."

There aren't that many options: Mr. Préval could try to stop the riots by
announcing an investigation into electoral fraud, but it's not clear that would
convince Haitian protesters; or he can also pressure his protégé, Mr. Célestin,
to drop out of the runoff, setting up a contest between Mr. Martelly and Ms.
Manigat.

Mr. Cannon was reluctant to say what steps Ottawa wants Mr. Préval to take - he
said Canada won't specify one thing or another, but wants him to "do the right
thing." Canada and other countries don't want to tell a sovereign country how to
fix the problem and calm public anger, but they're clearly hoping Mr. Préval
will get the hint.

Mr. Cannon said Canada might not recognize the final election result unless
something changes: "It seriously calls into question our recognition, if we
don't see progress, but above all, respect for the electoral process," he said.

It's no small matter if Canada and other countries don't recognize the new
president. Haiti depends on foreign aid for revenues and basic services such as
health care and the ongoing job of clearing away earthquake rubble. Haiti is
surpassing Afghanistan as Canada's biggest development priority, with aid
expected to top $250-million this year.

The riots are already pausing aid efforts, but long-term reconstruction efforts
could be hobbled if tainted elections leave donor countries feeling there's no
legitimate government with which to work.

"It weakens the will of the international community to continue," Carlo Dade,
the executive director of FOCAL, the Canadian Foundation for the Americas, said
by telephone from Haiti.

The earthquake was 11 months ago, but the glimmer of hope that followed, when
countries pledged more than $5-billion for reconstruction, has turned to
pessimism.

Last week, before the election riots, International Co-operation Minister Bev
Oda said in an interview that there have been flaws in the international
response - sorting out the flow of money through the World Bank and
co-ordinating donor countries' plans. "But I think the major challenge is the
capacity, the lack of capacity of the government that was there," she said.

"Haiti has always been challenging. And I think the situation will continue to
test the commitment of the countries. But Canada's there for the long term," Ms.
Oda said.

But now that tainted elections are casting doubt on whether Haiti's next
government will be legitimate, the world's fatigue may grow quickly. Ottawa's
patience seems to be wearing thin.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            January 2, 2016 Saturday

LENGTH: 586 words


Turkey

Leader walks back remarks on Nazi-style rule

ANKARA "" The Turkish president's office said Friday that Recep Tayyip Erdogan
was not advocating a Hitler-style government when he called for a state system
with a strong executive.

A statement from Erdogan's office said the Turkish president has declared the
Holocaust, anti-semitism and Islamophobia crimes against humanity and that it
was out of the question for him to cite Hitler's Germany as a good example.

Speaking to reporters Thursday, Erdogan was asked whether a presidential system
that he has long advocated could exist within a "unitary state." Erdogan cited
Hitler's Germany as one example in history.

However, Erdogan's office said the president had cited the era as a negative
example to explain that bad rule can emerge in all political systems.

Yemen

Al-Qaida leader slain in strike on convoy

SANAA "" Pro-government fighters in Yemen attacked and killed a senior al-Qaida
leader and three people traveling in his convoy near a security checkpoint in
the southern Abyan province Friday, Yemeni officials said.

Ali Abed al-Rab bin Talab, better known as Abu Anwar, was the extremist group's
chief judge in Yemen's largest province, Hadramawt, which al-Qaida largely
controls. He survived a suspected U.S. drone attack in 2014.

Al-Qaida and Islamic State-linked terrorists have exploited the chaos of Yemen's
civil war to make incursions into the strategic port city, where terrorist
attacks targeting pro-government officials have escalated in recent months.

france

Man attacks soldiers guarding mosque

PARIS "" A man rammed his car into four soldiers guarding a mosque Friday in the
southeast French city of Valence but was stopped when a soldier fired and
wounded him, authorities said.

His motives were unclear, but with France on high alert after the coordinated
attacks in Paris on Nov. 13, determining what, or who, was behind the attack
carried a sense of urgency.

One soldier was slightly injured in the leg, and a passerby was hit in the leg
by a stray bullet, authorities said.

Guatemala

8 killed in prison riot

GUATEMALA CITY "" Guatemalan officials say a prison riot in the eastern state of
Izabal has left eight inmates dead.

Prosecutor's spokeswoman Yesenia Enriquez said two of the victims were
decapitated and two were burned.

Enriquez did not give a reason for Thursday's riot.

Canada

Province bans sale of e-cigarettes to youth

TORONTO "" A law banning the sale of e-cigarettes to people younger than 19 has
gone into effect in Ontario.

Electronic cigarettes are now treated in the same way as regular cigarettes in
the Canadian province that includes Toronto. The law bans the sale of flavored
tobacco.

A ban on smoking e-cigarettes in public spaces and workplaces was supposed to go
into effect Friday, but Ontario's Associate Health Minister Dipika Damerla said
it will be delayed until later in the year. She did not provide a reason for the
delay.

iceland

President calling it quits after 2 decades

REYKJAVIK"" Iceland's long-serving president said he will not be seeking
re-election this year after leading the country for 20 years.

Olafur Ragnar Grimsson said in his New Year's speech Friday that it was the
right time to step down because many political uncertainties "" including
Iceland's application for European Union membership and its recovery from
economic collapse "" have been resolved.

Grimsson is the fifth president of Iceland. He has been elected for five
consecutive terms since 1996.

"" Wire reports

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     March 23, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Pope's words prompt riot; CANADA & WORLD; Refugees battle police after the
pontiff's censure of Israel's conduct

SOURCE: The Independent; London

BYLINE: Phil Reeves

SECTION: CANADA;WORLD; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: DEHEISHEH REFUGEE CAMP;BETHLEHEM


The Pope became the instant hero of the Palestinian people yesterday after he
plunged into the Middle East political cauldron with what amounted to a stinging
indictment of Israel's conduct.

But only an hour after uttering his words -- at a tinderbox Palestinian refugee
camp in Bethlehem before the world's TV cameras -- the place erupted into riots
with running street battles between stone-throwing Palestinian youths and
baton-wielding Palestinian police, who were also hurling stones.

Emotions -- stoked high because of the pontiff's visit -- spilled over half an
hour after the pontiff's Popemobile had drawn out of Bethlehem bearing its
79-year-old occupant back to a helicopter and nearby Jerusalem. If proof was
needed of the perils of John Paul II's mission to the Middle East -- and the
risk he is taking personally, despite a huge security operation -- then this was
it.

As dusk turned to darkness, large chunks of concrete and rocks flew through the
air, as about 700 youths charged out of the gloomy entrance to the camp's
streets to confront the police, who engaged in the battle as enthusiastically as
the youths they were trying to quell.

At first the police were driven back, but then they returned, with shields,
wooden batons and, in some cases, large planks of wood and heavy bits of metal
pipe. Some of the security officials -- some in blue fatigues, some in leather
jackets -- began brawling with their own colleagues, apparently urging
restraint.

Only an hour earlier, the pontiff himself -- a picture of frail vulnerability
for all his splendour and power -- had been standing before a crowd in the same
camp, Deheisheh, the squalid and overcrowded home of most of these rioters. In
words that acquired a new resonance as the fights began, he spoke mumblingly,
but graphically of the "degrading conditions" that Palestinians have endured
since being driven from their homes during the 1948 Israeli-Arab war, and
emphasized their "unalienable right to justice."

"You have been deprived of many things which represent the basic needs of the
human person: proper housing, health care, education and work," he told them. He
cannot have known that these deprivations -- which must surely play a big part
in the tensions here -- would take violent expression so soon.

"This is very, very bad," said a middle-aged Palestinian man as the fighting
raged to and fro. "For two hours we were trapped inside a restaurant while the
fighting raged only a few yards away. I have never seen anything like it in my
life," he said, shaking his head.

These were scenes -- such an ugly contrast to the flag-waving and joy of their
brief moment in the international limelight earlier -- the security police did
not want to be seen.

Earlier, the sight of his Popemobile drew warm cheers and applause from the
waiting crowd as it drew in to the camp yesterday afternoon, the final stop in a
day which saw him preside over an outdoor mass before a large crowd in
Bethlehem's Manger Square.

"You bear the sad memory of what you were forced to leave behind," the pontiff
told refugees, who are but a small percentage of the 3.5 million Palestinian
refugees scattered around Syria, Lebanon and Jordan. "Not just the material
possessions, but your freedom, the closeness of relatives and the familiar
surroundings and cultural traditions which nourished your personal and family
life."

Addressing Yasser Arafat at the Bethlehem helipad, before going on to the mass,
he stressed that "there would be no end to this sad conflict in the Holy Land
without stable guarantees for the rights of all people's involved on the basis
of international law and the relevant United Nations resolutions and
declarations."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacqueline Larma, The Associated Press; John Paul II lifts a
chalice during an outdoor mass in Bethlehem's Manger Square yesterday.

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 2000 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                               7 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 25, 2008

Spencer leads England to nations cup triumph

SECTION: Pg. 1100

LENGTH: 385 words


Bath Rugby Ladies' England captain Catherine Spencer led England Women to a
Nations Cup triumph last Sunday, adding to a list of honours which already
included the 2008 RBS Six Nations title and the European Championship crown, in
a 43-9 win over Canada at Esher.

Clifton full-back Danielle Waterman and Henley prop Rochelle Clark grabbed a
brace of touchdowns apiece in a seven-try romp against Canada, following on from
a tight 17-14 win over the USA last Friday evening.

England head coach Gary Street said: "I'm immensely proud of the players because
to come through three games in six days and win a tournament is a fantastic
achievement.

"The game against Canada was tough, but the second-half especially highlighted
everything we have been working towards over the last 12 months.

"The players demonstrated their determination and passion and I'm delighted for
them."

England led 12-9 at half-time, but then, with vice-captain and fly-half Katy
McLean controlling the game superbly, they ran riot.

Canada initially pushed ahead in the early stages and were rewarded with a
third-minute Anna Schnell penalty.

Saracens flanker Maggie Alphonsi and Waterman grabbed tries for England in the
first half, while Canada fly-half Anna Schnell kicked three penalties.

She added a fourth in the second half, but Clarke, Wasps wing Michaela
Staniford, Clarke again, Waterman and  substitute Kat Merchant all grabbed
second-half tries to polish the Canadians off.

England: 15 Danielle Waterman (Clifton), 14 Charlotte Barras (Saracens), 13
Emily Scarratt (Lichfield), 12 Kim Oliver (Clifton), Alice Richardson), 11
Michaela Staniford (Wasps), 10 Katy McLean (Darlington), 9 Amy Rurner
(Richmond),  1 Rochelle Clark (Henley), 2 Amy Garnett (Saracens), 3 Katy Storie
(Blaydon Team Northumbria), 4 Tamara Taylor (Darlington Mowden Park Sharks), 5
Joanna McGilchrist (Wasps), 6 Sarah Hunter (Lichfield), 7 Margaret Alphonsi
(Saracens), 8 Catherine Spencer (Bath, capt).

Replacements: 16 Emma Layland (Richmond) for Garnett (64mins); 17 Sophie Hemming
(Clifton) for Storie (64mins); 18 Natalie Binstead (Wasps) for Taylor (73mins);
19 Karen Jones (Richmond) for Hunter (45mins); 20 Alice Richardson (Richmond)
for Oliver (41mins), 21 Kat Merchant (Worcester) for Barras (68mins); 22
Francesca Matthews (Richmond for Staniford (69mins).

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 66


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Know when to stop, temperance group says; Victoria organization advocates
moderate drinking, opposes liquor sales in province's grocery stores

BYLINE: Bill Cleverley, Times Colonist

SECTION: THE CAPITAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 986 words


While the province looks to loosen up liquor laws, a fledgling Victoria-based
organization is pushing back.

Founded about 18 months ago on the one-year anniversary of Vancouver's Stanley
Cup riot, Canada's Temperance Foundation is trying to spread the message that
temperance is a virtue.

"That means it's OK to have a drink but not to get drunk," said Miles Craig,
CTF's founder, funder and hands-on CEO.

Craig is absolutely opposed to liquor law changes such as allowing liquor sales
in grocery stores. When privatization in 2002 saw the number of liquor outlets
in B.C. double, alcohol consumption rose dramatically - up 14 per cent across
the province and 23 per cent on Vancouver Island between 2002 and 2009, he said.

A buttoned-down, soft-spoken former executive, Craig worked about 20 years in
his family's Winnipeg-based Craig Broadcasting empire. Now temperance is his
passion and, in the past year, he has spent $200,000 of his own money to spread
a message of moderation. He has registered CTF as a charity and opened an
office, complete with a small staff, in downtown Victoria.

CTF's short-term goal is to educate Victoria residents on the benefits of
temperance. The 20-year goal is to extend that message across the country. CTF
encourages people to sign pledge cards to remain temperate by practising
moderation or restraint in the use of drugs or alcohol.

Few would dispute the merits of moderation, but getting the public interested is
an uphill battle. For example, a recent luncheon at the Union Club featuring
Craig as guest speaker was set to be cancelled due to a lack on interest until
Craig stepped in and sponsored the event himself.

And while Craig won't say how many pledges CTF has collected, the goal is to
have a relatively modest 400 signed cards by the end of the year.

Dan Dagg, president of Hothouse Marketing, said the idea of temperance may be
laudable but, from a marketing perspective, it won't work. "It's phrased in a
negative. What you need to sell is the positive side of that: Good living. Fun
living. And link fun living to a clear head and no hangover," Dagg said.
"Temperance goes against everything the mass media, the movie industry and the
TV industry promotes, really. I think there's a lot of momentum in the other
direction."

While the word temperance conjures up the image of long-skirted women in
stiff-brimmed hats carrying signs condemning the demon rum, that's not the
message Craig wants to send, nor what his organization is all about, he said. He
said he chose the name because, by definition, temperance is exactly what CTF is
advocating: "habitual moderation or restraint in the use of alcohol or drugs."

And, he points out, CTF advocates "contemporary temperance." It does not favour
prohibition of alcohol (although it has zero tolerance for illegal drugs) and it
is a secular organization that does not promote any religious ideas.

But the image associated with the word temperance is a hard one to overcome,
Dagg said. "He's trying to create a movement," he said of Craig. "I think you
need something more inspirational than 'temperance,' which I would argue 75 per
cent of his target audience don't even know what that means."

Helping Craig spread the message is childhood friend Gray Garten. The men are an
unlikely pair. Although they hung out together as pre-teens cottaging at Clear
Lake, Man., they lost touch as they grew older. While Craig went through
university and had a successful career as an executive, Garten's life went
south. Craig has never even visited a treatment centre. Garten said he has been
through detox 26 times.

"My brother went to Princeton, my sister went to Harvard and I went to detox,"
Garten said. "I came from an upper-middle-class family where education is very
important and I quit high school at 16 and began my career as a lifeguard,
alcoholic, drug addict."

Sober since 2007, Garten reconnected with Craig by chance in 2010. He now works
as CTF's vice-president and community outreach co-ordinator. Garten tells his
story of addiction and recovery as a cautionary tale in schools - a message that
has been wellreceived, Craig said. Both acknowledge that once someone has
crossed the line from heavy drinking into alcoholism that moderation is not an
option and abstinence is the only solution. But Craig argues most social harms
associated with alcohol use - accidents and injuries, crime, family breakdowns,
business and educational problems - can be attributed to light or moderate
alcohol use. Because alcohol is so entrenched in society, advocating total
abstinence is not a realistic goal. Thus, the have-a-drink-butdon't-get-drunk
stance. It's a message that reminds drug and alcohol counsellor Sue Donaldson of
Nancy Reagan's failed Just Say No campaign.

"The whole thing is that if people are able to moderate [their alcohol intake],
then they generally do. They don't exhibit that loss of control," said
Donaldson, owner of Pegasus Recovery Solutions.

While a modern-day temperance movement might encourage people to think about
their alcohol intake, Donaldson wonders about the efficacy of asking people to
sign pledge cards.

"I guess you can get a bunch of people who don't have an alcohol-use disorder to
pledge, but [for them] it's a non-issue anyway. Or you could get a bunch of
alcoholics to pledge and we'll just see how that goes," she said.
bcleverley@timescolonist.com

USE OF ALCOHOL

In Canada, 47,000 deaths are linked to substance abuse annually. Alcohol
accounted for eight per cent of all deaths under age 70 and seven per cent of
all hospital stays in 2002. Alcohol is linked to more than 200 diseases and
injuries.

Canadians drink more than 50 per cent above the global average.

In B.C., experts estimate alcohol-related harms will overtake those related to
smoking by 2014.

In 2002, the provincial health officer reported health and legal costs exceeded
government revenue from alcohol sales by $61 million.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Adrian Lam, Times Colonist; Miles Craig, founder and CEO of Canada's
Temperance Foundation, has spent $200,000 of his own money to promote drinking
in moderation.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2013 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 30 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                           October 11, 2012 Thursday
                                National Edition

Border bans - a bad idea

BYLINE: Jerome Henen, National Post

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 90 words


Re: U.S. Pastor's Visit Fuels Debate On Border Bans, Oct. 10.

Why would Canada want to keep Terry Jones out? He has every right to his views,
however inane or hateful they may be. Let him burn whatever books he wants to.

It is those who cannot control their response to such Western freedoms that need
watching and who need to learn that not every act of hatred warrants a riot.

Canada should be proud of its hard won freedoms. Better to keep bigots in sight
than give them more media ammunition than they deserve.

Jerome Henen, North Vancouver.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

The E-list

BYLINE: Glen Schaefer, The Province

SECTION: E-WEEKEND; Great Things To Do Today; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 406  words


ON STAGE

CONFESSIONS OF THE OTHER WOMAN

Where: Performance Works, 1218 Cartwright St., Granville Island (until March
11); Evergreen Cultural Center, 1205 Pinetree way, Coquitlam (March 13-17)

Why: B.C.'s Valerie Sing Turner wrote and stars in this world premiere, a
multimedia story of a modern woman pulled between passion and questions of
integrity. Eve has met the man she sees as her soulmate, who has a sense of
humour, boundless charisma and a wife. Co-starring Kevin Loring and Matt Ward,
alongside evocative imagery and 1930s-style dances that blur reality and
fantasy.

When: 8 nightly Tuesdays to Saturdays, 2 p.m. matinees Saturdays and Sundays.

Tickets: From $15 at vancouverplayhouse. com or call 604-873-3311 (for
Performance Works shows), and evergreenculturalcentre. ca or call 604-927-6555.

ON SCREEN

BUENA VISTA SOCIAL CLUB

Where: Pacific Cinémathèque, 1131 Howe St.

Why: Musician Ry Cooder and director Wim Wenders travelled in 1996 to discover
the for-gotten stars of Cuba's music scene, including such veteran players as
Eliades Ochoa, Ibrahim Ferrer, Omara Portuondo, Rubén González, Orlando
'Cachaito' López. The resulting record album and 1999 musical documentary
relaunched their touring careers and revived interest in the pre-Castro music
scene.

When: 7 p.m.

Tickets: $10.50/$9.

VISUAL ARTS

10 SECONDS

Where: Gallery 1965, 1965 Main St.

Why: This reception marks the end of the yearlong series of short video works
broadcast on screens at Canada Line stations, and the launch of a DVD
compilation of the works by artists including Chelsea O'Brian, Douglas Coupland,
Jeff Chiba Stearns, Michael Turner and Tony Pantages. The shorts included
flash-backs to the hippie era, surreal experiments, and an animated spin on the
Stanley Cup riots. The Canada Line screenings end March 11.

When: 8 p.m.

Free admission

In concert

Le Vent du Nord

Where: St. James Hall, 3214 W. 10th Ave.

Why: This 10-year-old Juno-winning Quebec folk quartet, consisting of
singer-instrumentalists Nicolas Boulerice, Simon Beaudry, Olivier Demers and
Réjean Brunet, mix traditional folksong and their own originals for a sound that
has won them fans around the world.

When: Doors 7: 30 p.m.

Tickets: $24 ($20 rogue Folk Club members) at Highlife, Rufus Guitar Shop,
rogue-folk.bc.ca or call 604-736-3022

While The Province does its best to provide accurate event information, please
be sure to reconfirm. Thank you.

gschaefer@theprovince.com

twitter.com/glenschaefer

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Submitted; Kevin Loring and Valerie Sing Turner star in Confessions of
the Other Woman.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                             April 29, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Afghan prison's officials arrested after mass escape; Hundreds left through
tunnel built by Taliban

BYLINE: Molly Hennessy-fiske, McClatchy-Tribune News, With Files From Postmedia
News

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 437  words

DATELINE: KABUL


Afghan authorities have arrested the warden and other officials at the Kandahar
prison where nearly 500 insurgents managed to escape this week through a tunnel
built by the Taliban, officials said Thursday.

Ghulam Dastagher Mayar was among 10 officials arrested at Sarpoza prison, about
half of those on duty at the time of the prison break that began late Sunday,
according to Gen. Amir Mohammad Jamshidi, the country's chief director of
prisons.

Jamshidi and other Afghan officials declined to identify the other arrested
officials or detail the charges against those held.

"The investigation into the prison break is ongoing. I can only say that a
number of security force members have been arrested during the past few days for
interrogation purposes," Kandahar Governor Tooryalai Wesa told reporters at the
prison Thursday.

Wesa referred questions to the attorney general's office, but officials there
declined to release any information, citing the ongoing investigation.

Afghanistan's justice minister has said the Taliban must have received inside
help from prison officials to pull off the spectacular escape, a
four-and-a-half-hour operation that failed to raise any alarms among guards.

Escapees' accounts have varied. Some claimed to have received help from "special
friends" to obtain keys to their cells.

Others have said the cells were routinely left unlocked at night by their
guards, who generally gathered at the main gate, out of sight of the cellblocks.

It was the second escape at the prison in three years.

In 2008, about 1,000 prisoners -nearly half of them Taliban insurgents -escaped
from Sarpoza after insurgents outside the prison deton-ated a truck bomb against
the side of the compound.

Afghan authorities said they had recaptured 74 of the latest escapees as of
Thursday and two more had been killed when they fled recapture earlier this
week. The search was still under way late Thursday, officials said.

The Taliban have claimed 541 prisoners escaped, including 106 military
commanders.

While the Afghan government is responsible for prisons, no foreign country had a
bigger hand in shaping Sarpoza than Canada.

Corrections Canada officers were responsible for mentoring Afghan guards about
how to properly run a prison, including such things as when and how to count
prisoners, check cells and deal with riots.

Canada contributed several million dollars to upgrade defences at the prison
after a major escape in 2008.

Some money was also spent to make life more comfortable and pleasant for the
Taliban prisoners and others held there after concerns were expressed in Canada
about the treatment of detainees.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             May 22, 2004 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Is TV on Whyte Ave. a good idea?: Yes: TV surveillance would comfort those in
Old Strathcona who are intimidated by drunken louts, and make policing more
effective; Police maintain that the night crowd in Old Strathcona is often out
of control and they want to make use of TV surveillance to keep a civilized lid
on a volatile situation. Critics say that's an invasion of privacy

BYLINE: Peter Ratcliff, Freelance

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 991  words


The Canada Day riot on Whyte Avenue in 2000 left a significant scar on the
city's psyche.

There was considerable property damage, looting and physical violence that
night. Moreover, there was alsoa troubling increase in the volume of calls for
police assistance over the two-year period that followed. All this has prompted
the Edmonton Police Service to review how it responds to what has become a crime
"hot spot."

Because of the increase in violent and property crimes in the area, and the
urgings of business owners and citizens in Old Strathcona and elsewhere that
something be done, the Edmonton Police Service conducted a lengthy study on
whether to install and monitor closed-circuit television cameras in that area.

The EPS and its members are fully aware of their responsibilities to the
citizens of Edmonton and the people who frequent Whyte Avenue. Those
responsibilities include not only the protection of life and property, but also
the protection of their privacy in living up to those responsibilities. This
awareness fuelled a thorough analysis of the concerns surrounding the impact on
personal privacy that the installation of closed-circuit TV cameras might have.

After conducting two surveys of the public and the business owners in the area,
it was determined that the installation of TV cameras would be of significant
benefit, both to the police charged with maintaining order and for the patrons
and residents of Old Strathcona who face the drunken and intimidating antics of
inebriated persons on a continuing basis.

The survey questions surrounded the privacy-protection implications of TV
surveillance, the proposed use of the cameras and the images they capture, and
other privacy issues.

The results of these surveys assisted the EPS in developing a document called a
privacy impact assessment, as recommended by the Provincial Privacy
Commissioner. That document is the cornerstone of the policy and procedure
surrounding the use of the closed-circuit television cameras soon to be put in
place in Old Strathcona.

The members of the Edmonton Police Association are the people responsible for
maintaining order in the city of Edmonton in general and on Whyte Avenue in
particular. Despite their best efforts and those of concerned residents and
business owners, the Old Strathcona area, with its significant -- some would say
inordinate -- number of licensed establishments, has become the busiest area in
the city.

One need only to take a stroll along Whyte Avenue after closing time on any
Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning -- if you dare -- to see what I mean.
The drunken, loutish, intimidating and obnoxious behaviour of the recently
expelled bar patrons is, as our experienced and burned-out beat members call it,
"a complete Gong Show!"

People who have consumed copious quantities of liquor over an extended period of
time find themselves on the street looking for another outlet for their
alcohol-fuelled frenzy.

More often than not, they direct that frenzy on the people walking home, the
cars parked on the street, the windows of local businesses and less likely but
still fairly common, themselves. Police officers arrest dozens of these people
every weekend and find themselves swamped by calls for service that they somehow
have to prioritize literally on the run.

Because of the vast numbers of people that frequent the area, some bent on
mayhem, others intent on just getting home safely, the police members find
themselves running from one incident to another, too busy to prevent anything
from happening, and usually arriving after the damage is done and the culprits
gone.

With limited resources and the highly unlikely prospect of an increase in
personnel within our ranks, it only makes sense that EPS officers get some
assistance in living up to their responsibilities. The installation and the
careful monitoring of a tool like closed-circuit TV is just such a helping hand.

With the assistance of this technology, our members would be able to get to
fights before they started, or at least get out of control, thereby preventing
or minimizing the injuries caused. They would arrive at scenes in time to
identify and arrest culprits and potentially prevent criminal acts from
happening. This technology would also contribute greatly to preventing harm to
police officers who find themselves caught in situations that have, without
their knowledge, spun out of control. Believe me, it is a sobering experience to
realize that you are surrounded by a crowd of people disposed towards doing you
harm.

The EPS, I believe, spent a considerable amount of time and organizational
soul-searching before employing this technology. The input of the community was
sought and acted upon. The concerns about privacy rights -- potential or real --
were mitigated by the implementation of a strict policy covering everything from
the use of the cameras, periods of time they would be used, what the operators
could and could not do, the storage of the captured images and the protocol in
the reviewing of any incidents caught by the cameras.

The TVs on Whyte Avenue are placed there at the request of the citizens in that
community to assist them and their police officers in the detection of crimes in
their neighbourhood and hopefully to deter criminal activity.

It is clearly understood that when the state -- the police in this case -- uses
technology of this type that may impact the privacy of individuals, that certain
restrictions must be put in place to prevent abuse.

These concerns have been addressed and the cameras will be used in the hope that
citizens who live in the area or frequent its businesses will in some way feel
safer and be safer. Hopefully they will also feel less intimidated by the
socially dysfunctional, whose behaviour the detractors of this technology would
allow to continue, unabated and unaccounted for.

Sgt. Peter Ratcliff is a member and president of the Edmonton Police Association

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Edward Parsons, The Journal, File; The Canada Day riots in 2000 proved to
be a watershed moment in the policing of Old Strathcona. There was considerable
looting, violence and destruction that night, a disturbing development that
police say has since made the neighbourhood a crime hot spot. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime; Statistics; Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2004 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             July 1, 2004 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Police cameras cover the action

BYLINE: The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: CITYPLUS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 334  words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


EDMONTON - For the second straight summer, police are using surveillance cameras
to watch for troublemakers in the Old Strathcona area.

The cameras were put up last summer as part of a pilot project to see how
effective they are in deterring crime in the historic shopping and entertainment
district, the scene of a riot by drunken Canada Day revellers in 2001.

The cameras were turned on for 24-hour periods during Canada Day and the Fringe
Festival last year.

This year, the cameras will be used more often, but their hours of operation
will be shorter, said police spokesman Andy Weiler. The cameras were turned on
Thursday and will operate during peak times until Sept. 12.

Footage gathered by the cameras will be erased after 21 days, unless it is
needed for an investigation. Signs will be posted informing people they are in a
monitored area, said Weiler.

A city report recommended the use of surveillance cameras as one way to prevent
the kind of lawless outbreak seen after Canada Day 2001, which made national
headlines.

Police have conducted three public opinion surveys about the cameras and will do
two more this summer before making a final decision on whether to continue using
the cameras. The data gathered last year wasn't enough for police to draw
conclusions.

The idea of using cameras in the Whyte Avenue area came out of talks with the
community after the riot. Police consulted with Alberta's information and
privacy commissioner before the pilot project and will continue to keep the
privacy watchdog advised of the use of cameras, said Weiler.

As with last year's Canada Day festivities, city police will have additional
officers stationed around the city.

The extra officers patrol hot spots such as Whyte Avenue, Kinsmen Park and in
Mill Woods.

"The police service wants to ensure people can come out and have a safe time,"
said police spokesman Dean Parthenis.

CAMERA LOCATIONS:

- Gateway Boulevard/Whyte Avenue

- Calgary Trail/Whyte Avenue

- 105th Street/Whyte Avenue

- Calgary Trail/81 Avenue

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2004 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                              June 7, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Rally marks trek that culminated in Regina Riot; Clash between trekkers, police
happened 75 years ago

BYLINE: Andy Ivens, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 382  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Dozens of people gathered in downtown Vancouver on Sunday afternoon to mark the
75th anniversary of an important and tragic piece of Canadian history.

Organizers of the event unveiled a plaque marking the anniversary of the On to
Ottawa Trek -- the departure of more than 1,000 unemployed men on rail boxcars
to the nation's capital to protest meagre conditions and wages of 20 cents a day
in government work camps.

The trekkers left Vancouver aboard Canadian Pacific Railway freight cars on June
3, 1935, and gathered support in Kamloops, B.C., and Calgary. But they were
stopped by police in Regina on orders from Prime Minister R.B. Bennett.

Police arrested some of the organizers on July 1, sparking the Regina Riot,
Canada's most violent episode during the 10 years of the Great Depression. One
police officer and one trekker died while hundreds were injured in the four-hour
melee.

Social activists point to the riot as the turning point in the fight for
progressive social changes in Canada -- Bennett's government was humiliated in
the election three months later and many of the trekkers' demands were enacted
by the succeeding Liberal government of William Lyon Mackenzie King.

David Yorke has met with many of the trekkers, their wives and children. He said
their accounts of the clash between RCMP and Regina police and the 300 trekkers
and 1,000 Regina residents at an outdoor meeting at Market Square that night was
shocking.

"Just after the meeting started, the police simply charged in," said Yorke, the
secretary of the On to Ottawa Historical Society.

"They came in with baseball bats, leaded truncheons. They were armed. There were
mounted police assembled. The meeting was dispersed and a riot ensued. Tear gas
was used and police actually opened fire on the protesters," he said.

Yorke sees some similarities between Canada now and 75 years ago.

A delegation of homelessness activists left Vancouver for Ottawa Sunday night to
press the federal government for a commitment to fund social housing.

"There have been in the past federal forms of support for non-profit and
supportive housing," he said.

"Those programs have been systematically cut back. It would make a tremendous
difference to the homeless if just some of those programs were brought back,"
said Yorke.

(Vancouver Province)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2010 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                     April 19, 2003 Saturday Final Edition

Coach Donohue was one of a kind: A war correspondent pauses while in Iraq to
remember a friend who did so much for the sport of basketball in Canada.

SOURCE: CanWest News Service

BYLINE: Matthew Fisher

SECTION: Sports; Matthew Fisher; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: BAGHDAD

BAGHDAD - This is a most unlikely place to remember an Irish New Yorker who made
his home for a quarter of a century in Canada and popularized the game of
basketball there like no one else before him.

It was on Thursday evening, amid the tanks and roses here, that I learned by
satellite phone from my father that Jack Donohue, the basketball icon, raconteur
and family man had died eight time zones and another world away in Canada.

I remember my first meeting with Coach Donohue as if it were yesterday. It was
in the ultra-posh lobby of the Philippine Plaza Hotel in Manila in 1978. Canada
was playing in the world championships and I was there to report for the
Canadian Press and CBC Radio.

With Donohue was his great friend and professional Newfoundlander, the late Ed
Browne, and Andrew Pipe, then a young doctor on the first day of work with the
national basketball team, now perhaps Canada's best-known sports physician.

I had already travelled the world for several years as a sports reporter,
covering Canada's Olympic teams.

I had never met a coach like Donohue before, nor have I met one like him since.
The very first sentence he spoke to me was a promise I would have total access
to his team. I was welcome on the bus, I was welcome in the dressing room. If I
wanted, I was also welcome to sit on the Canadian bench -- and I sometimes did
want to in later years when surrounded by fanatical spectators in Latin America
and the Balkans.

Canadian sports reporters loved Donohue because he was so approachable and
outrageously quotable. They gave him a lot of credit for spreading the gospel
about basketball in Canada, but in my opinion they were so mesmerized by his
blarney they rarely gave him enough credit as a coach.

With limited talent and often precious little backing from Basketball Canada,
Donohue got Canada qualified for the Moscow and Los Angeles Olympics.

Donohue and his longtime confidant, straight man and fellow New Yorker Steve
Konchalski of St. Francis Xavier University, also developed the next generation
of Canadian basketball teachers, such as Martin Riley, Howard Kelsey, Doc Ryan
and Jay Triano, who now coaches the national team.

Everyone who knew him had a favourite Jack Donohue story. Mine was from that
wonderful first trip to Manila in 1978. During a close game before a crowd of
20,000 spectators, Donohue jumped on to the court to protest -- as he often did
-- a referee's decision. As he did so, his feet slipped on sweat on the floor
and he slid on his backside about five metres onto the court.

Tom Kappas, a big Greek kid from Montreal who never played much, raced off the
bench and stood over Donohue as the coach clutched one of his knees and,
baseball-style, swept his long arms together and shouted, "Safe!"

Despite being in tremendous pain, Donohue, as much as anyone else, shared in the
joke.

Over the years, there have been many riots and near riots when Canada has played
basketball in faraway places where few Canadians even knew the team had been
sent. I remember many harrowing occasions in Colombia, Puerto Rico, Brazil,
Yugoslavia and even Israel.

Throughout these long journeys and many others, Donohue lived and breathed
basketball and maintained his good humour, no matter how many times foreign
referees tried to do the Canadians in.

It was amazing he kept in touch with hundreds of his former players, from New
York City, where USA Today said he coached the greatest high school basketball
team of all time, to Canada. One of his all-time favourite players was Billy
Robinson, the inspirational captain of Canada's Montreal Olympics team.

Donohue was, to his core, a devout and pious Roman Catholic. Whether in Tel Aviv
or Taipei, he always found a way to get to mass every day and would round up all
his Catholic players to go with him to church. Like Father Bower, the great
Canadian hockey coach, he thought it was very important for young athletes to
contemplate something other than sport.

Donohue, his wife, Mary Jane, and their six children lived only blocks away from
my mother in an Ottawa suburb. Without fail, we saw each other whenever I was
home, sometimes going for long walks, more often having long breakfasts
together.

I saw Coach D. the day I returned to my home in Russia after a Canadian
Christmas and new year. Though plagued in recent years by assorted physical
ailments, he was in fine form that day over bacon and eggs at an Ottawa
delicatessen.

He told stories about his strange, whimsical pal from New York, Freddy the
Spook, and about his summer holidays with his huge, extended family on the New
Jersey Shore.

My last image of this unique man was of him limberly jaywalking across the road
to a smoke shop where he always picked up back issues of his beloved New York
Post.

Coach didn't know then he had pancreatic cancer. It claimed him quickly, which
was a blessing.

Jack knew that I was in Iraq and had drawn a frontline combat assignment. A
veteran of the Korean War, with a thousand amusing stories about his time there,
his last message to me a few weeks ago was to be careful.

My, how I miss him. So do many others in Canada and the United States whose
lives he touched and shaped.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pat McGrath, The Ottawa Citizen; For all his talent as a
basketball coach, Jack Donohue, seen in 1997, may have been an even more skilled
storyteller.

TYPE: Sports; Column; Profile

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                             National Post (Canada)

               October 15, 2003 Wednesday Toronto / Late Edition

Cancelled punk show sparks riot in Montreal: The exploited, total chaos: Cars
overturned, windows smashed, streets cordoned off

SOURCE: CanWest News Service, with files from The Canadian Press

BYLINE: Brenda Branswell

SECTION: Canada; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL

MONTREAL - A riot broke out in the middle of a downtown street last night after
angry concert-goers protested the cancellation of a punk concert.

The nightmarish scene included cars overturned in the middle of the street,
charred and smouldering vehicles, and well more than a dozen others with smashed
windshields.

Mayhem erupted around 8 p.m. when organizers announced the bands The Exploited
and Total Chaos could not make the show. Some irate concert-goers turned their
wrath on the property around them, smashing windows and cars.

"There was a lot of anger," said Sylvain Bouchard, who had a ticked to the
highly anticipated concert. "People jumped on cars. They were on the hoods. They
broke windshields. They turned cars upside down...and they set them on fire."

"Let's start a war! We want to riot," is how one bystander described the shouts
of the rioters.

The riot squad arrived at the scene and police sealed off streets. One police
officer suffered a minor leg injury. And a few security agents from the bar that
was to host the concert were also injured, apparently by broken glass. The
injuries were not serious, police said.

"I find it deplorable," said Mr. Bouchard as he watched flames shooting up from
two cars.

The vandals also targeted stores and cars in a nearby parking lot.

The incident took place after concert-goers were told that the groups would not
be performing because some band members were refused entry into the country by
Canada Customs, the French-language TV channel LCN reported.

Hundreds of young people milled around the street before the violence began.
Several picked up material from a nearby construction site and hurled the items
at cars and windows, said a witness.

Minutes later, four cars were overturned and set on fire, flames shooting out
the side windows as firemen directed streams of water at them. The windows of
one large music store, a clothing shop and a printer were smashed.

Riot police with helmets and shields cordoned off a several block area as the
young people fled. Several arrests were reported.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: John Mahoney, CanWest News Service; Burned-out cars litter
the street outside the Medley rock club in downtown Montreal last night, after a
show by the punk bands The Exploited and Total Chaos was cancelled.; Color
Photo: Patrick Sansfacon, The Canadian Press; Firefighters work to extinguish
one of the many car fires.

TYPE: News; Crime

               Copyright 2003 National Post, All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 Early Edition

Moscow fans Serbia's flames; Ambassador warns NATO Russia will use 'brute force'
if needed to help its Balkan ally

BYLINE: Steven Edwards, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 976  words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


UNITED NATIONS - The international split over Kosovo grew more ominous yesterday
as Russia raised the spectre of using force to back its Serb ally's bid to
retain the territory.

Russia's envoy to NATO warned both the western military alliance, which has a
16,000-strong peacekeeping force in Kosovo, and the European Union against
formally backing the ethnic-Albanian leadership's declaration of independence
from Serbia.

"If the European Union works out a common position, or if NATO breaches its
mandate in Kosovo, these organizations will be in conflict with the United
Nations," said Dmitry Rogozin, alluding to Russia's position that a UN Security
Council resolution on Kosovo does not authorize a unilateral move to
independence.

"We too would then have to proceed from the view that in order to be respected,
we must use brute force, in other words armed force."

Mr. Rogozin spoke a day after a mob in the Serbian capital of Belgrade ransacked
and torched the U.S. Embassy during a 250,000-strong rally protesting the
independence move and Washington's recognition of the breakaway state.

The EU has not collectively ruled on Kosovo's proclamation, but has pledged to
deploy a 2,000-strong administrative-support mission to take over from the UN,
which has run the territory since NATO's 1999 bombing campaign forced the Serb
army to withdraw.

Russian Foreign Ministry Mikhail Kamynin said the United States and "other
forces that supported Kosovo's proclamation should have been aware of the
consequences of such a step."

While no one expects Russia would pit its forces against NATO in the region,
experts say such talk could encourage other violence on the ground.

"Bellicose language from the Russians is not helpful," said retired U.S.
Maj.-Gen. William Nash, who served as UN regional administrator in northern
Kosovo in 2000.

"One fear is that acts of provocation can lead to retaliation that in turn
escalates the whole circumstance."

Up to 10,000 of the two million ethnic-Albanians in Kosovo died when Serb forces
under then Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic swept through the province almost a
decade ago. Since NATO tipped the balance of power to the ethnic Albanians, it's
Kosovo's minority Serbs who've faced pressure to leave. Maj.-Gen. Nash said that
missing today is a "compensation package for both Serbia, as an entity that has
lost a portion of its country, and the Serb citizens in Kosovo."

In Washington, the State Department demanded Moscow repudiate Mr. Rogozin's
words, characterizing what he said as "cynical and ahistorical."

"We strongly advise Russia to be more responsible in its public comments toward
Kosovo," said Nicholas Burns, the third-ranking State Department official.

"Russia is isolated this week ... very few countries are supporting its
position."

In fact, the world is almost evenly split over the issue, with countries'
positions appearing to reflect their internal concerns.

Against a backdrop of sensitivity over Quebec, Canada is among more than 25
countries that have not said one way or the other whether they support Kosovo's
move. Argentina, which seeks to end British rule in the Falklands, and Cyprus
and Spain, which are faced with their own separatist movements, are among almost
20 countries that have ruled against recognition. They say the unilateral
declaration sets a bad precedent.

Major emerging powers such as India and South Africa are among almost 10
countries that have expressed concern over Kosovo's move.

Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica yesterday called the Thursday's
violence a "great misfortune" that was "directly damaging to our fight to
preserve (the) state."

But the Serb government also pressed ahead with a bid to reclaim control over at
least northern Kosovo, which borders Serbia, and is where Serbs form a regional
majority.

The government announced yesterday, for example, that Serb judges and other
judicial employees would abandon UN-run Kosovo institutions and return to Serb
ones in the north -- an apparent effort to create parallel Serb institutions in
the breakaway state.

At border crossings yesterday, Kosovar police and NATO troops from France
stopped students from Serbia from entering Kosovo, saying they were "not
citizens" and that they would be banned "pending further orders."

Inside Kosovo, members of the Serb minority have shown their anger by destroying
UN and NATO property, detonating small bombs and taunting NATO and UN officials.

Russia said NATO needs to recall it is supposed to be neutral in the standoff.
The EU told Serbia it must protect the embassies in Belgrade.

The Canadian Embassy in Belgrade was open yesterday after being hit by stones
during Thursday's riot. Canada's Department of Foreign Affairs said the
building, which is not far from the U.S. Embassy, had not been a target of the
violence.

The families of U.S. diplomats in Belgrade, meanwhile, prepared to leave the
country until the security situation improves. The United States also closed its
diplomatic mission yesterday in Banja Luka, an ethnic-Serb stronghold in
Serbia's neighbour, Bosnia, after Serb protesters attempting to attack it the
day before clashed with police.

Kosovo's independence proclamation has raised concerns over the future of Bosnia
which, since the 1992-1995 civil war, has been split between the Muslim-Croat
Federation and Republika Srpska, an ethnic-Serb region. The parliament in the
Serb area this week claimed the right to also secede and join the Republic of
Serbia.

Britain, France, Germany and Turkey joined the United States in quickly
recognizing Kosovo's independence, declared last Sunday, and about 20 countries
may have done so by the beginning of next week.

The Belgrade embassies of all those countries were also targeted in Thursday's
riots. The charred remains of a body, believed to be that of a protester, were
found inside the U.S. Embassy.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Andrej Isakovic/AFP/Getty Images; Serbian police guard the U.S. Embassy
in Belgrade yesterday, the day after a mob set it on fire to protest American
support for an independent Kosovo. The embassy was open as usual yesterday, but
all non-essential staff had been ordered home for their safety. ;
Colour Photo: Robert Atanasovski/AFP/Getty Images; French soldiers serving at
NATO-led peacekeeping force in Kosovo block Serbian students as they tried to
cross the border into Kosovo yesterday to join a rally in the northern city of
Mitrovica to protest Kosovo's declaration of independence. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2008 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            March 26, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Beijing faces rare criticism at the UN

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 213  words

DATELINE: GENEVA


China came under pressure at the United Nations human rights forum yesterday to
ease its clampdown on Tibet by lifting curbs on movement and information and not
using force in the restive Himalayan region.

The European Union, in a speech to the UN Human Rights Council, urged Beijing to
refrain from using force against a wave of Tibetan protests that began on March
10 - the 49th anniversary of a failed uprising against Chinese rule - and led to
riots.

Canada, the United States, Australia, and Switzerland also called on China to
lift restrictions on movement and information from Tibet, where a ban on foreign
media has made it difficult to know whether rights abuses are taking place.

China, a permanent member of the UN Security Council whose economic clout makes
it a strategic ally for both rich and poor countries, rarely faces direct
criticism at the United Nations.

Beijing holds one of the 47 rotating seats on the Human Rights Council. India,
the country hosting Tibetan's exiled spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, is also a
member, along with Russia and Saudi Arabia.

Addressing the Council yesterday, Amnesty International cited reports that
protesters in Tibet were "apparently attacked solely for their ethnic identity,
resulting in death, injury and damage to property."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Vancouver vandals tarnish Stanley Cup

BYLINE: MIKE BOONE, The Gazette

SECTION: NEWS; Mike Boone; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 684  words


As they reliably do, given any opportunity, morons ruined the Stanley Cup Final.

Wait, am I allowed to use that term? I know it's no longer permissible to refer
to the mentally challenged as "retards;" but is it still okay to use "moron" to
describe someone with his tongue sticking out, dancing on one leg in front of a
burning car, index and pinky fingers thrust defiantly toward the sky?

How about "imbecile?" "Cretin?" "Dimwit?"

All were amply represented on the streets of Vancouver Wednesday evening. The
Canucks lost the Cup, and a city lost its reputation as a laid-back,
granola-gobbling left-coast Shangri-La.

One of the advantages of a satellite dish is the ability to watch television
signals from across the country.

After wrapping up Hockey Inside/Out's live-blog of Game 7, I switched to local
coverage and toggled back and forth between CBC and CTV coverage of the riot in
downtown Vancouver.

I was glued to the screen right up until Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson
weighed in, with some stern words for the rioters, at about 1 a.m. EST.

The mayor and his damagecontrol team will scramble to scrub off the tarnish, but
the damage is done.

The riot is trending worldwide on Twitter, the carnage is a film festival unto
itself on YouTube and Rich Lam of Getty Images will go down in photog history
for his shot of the couple for whom tear gas was an aphrodisiac.

But imagine the reaction of pro-democracy activists watching Vancouver erupt on
their computers in Cairo and Damascus. What's Arabic slang for anal orifices?

Montrealers might use a different A-word to describe the Vancouver vandals:
Amateurs.

We take a connoisseur's view because Montreal invented the modern hockey riot.

During the 1955 playoffs, Canadiens star Maurice Richard was suspended for
abusing an official.

The next game, on March 17 at the Forum, degenerated into chaos that spilled out
to the downtown streets.

The Richard Riot has been described as the not-so-tranquil first salvo of
Quebec's Quiet Revolution.

The Rocket was a francophone star in a National Hockey League administered by
anglophones. NHL president Clarence Campbell, who was physically attacked at the
Forum that night, was an anglo autocrat right out of Central Casting.

If current NHL commissioner Gary Bettman (booed lustily by Vancouver fans during
the Cup presentation Wednesday night) reminds you of a Wall St. hustler pushing
sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, Campbell was a St. James St. tycoon,
keeping a tight rein on shop-floor unrest among the French-speaking workers
whose minimum-wage sweat put cigars in his humidor. It was a people's hockey
riot.

There was post-game trouble in our streets when the Canadiens won the Stanley
Cup in 1993 and after preliminary-round conquests of Boston in 2008 and
Pittsburgh 13 months ago.

Vancouver had a downtown riot after the Canucks lost Game 7 of the 1994 final.

But the Richard Riot was the first and last to have anything resembling a
political dimension.

If this were about oppressed citizens venting legitimate grievances, there would
be a riot on the Mercier Bridge.

Hockey riots occur because there is no minimum IQ to buy alcohol.

Take a critical mass of hockey fans who've been pounding suds for three hours,
add a few dozen multiple-pierced trust-fund anarchists, encircle this volatile
social experiment with gormless twits recording the carnage on their cellphones
and, next thing you know, portable toilets have been rendered inoperative by the
law of gravity and The Bay is ablaze in the smouldering heart of Vancouver.

Let the second-guessing and finger-pointing begin. Watching the riot unfold on
TV, I thought the police presence looked a tad light, certainly by the standards
of Montreal, where our riot squad is used to dealing with hockey hooligans.

But why would mass stupidity surprise the Vancouver cops - or anyone else?

Sarah Palin is a political force in the U.S.

People who think nothing of paying $50 for pay-per-view UFC see newspaper
subscriptions as a waste of money.

Idiocy is ascendant. Enlightenment, however, might prevail - if there's enough
tear gas.

mboone@ montrealgazette.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Gazette, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Team Canada's goal song stirs up Twitter; Boppy Blackhawks' tune triggers online
complaints

BYLINE: Sandra Sperounes, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Sandra Sperounes; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 469  words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


There's a bit of a goal song controversy brewing at the world junior hockey
championship.

Some fans and even sports broadcasters are questioning why Team Canada is using
the same tune to celebrate each goal - Chelsea Dagger by The Fratellis - that
the Blackhawks play at the United Center in Chicago.

Twitter was aflutter with cranky comments during Team Canada's game against
Finland, where the "do do do, do do do" song was played eight times Monday at
Rexall Place.

"I seriously can't believe that every single Canadian isn't rising up in outrage
over Chelsea Dagger right now. NOW is when you riot, Canada," tweeted @katebits,
a hockey fan from Buffalo, N.Y.

"Blasphemy," wrote Chris Boden, who hosts Chicago's pre-and post-game TV shows
on Comcast SportsNet.

"So @HockeyCanada is going to use Chelsea Dagger as the theme song for goals at
the WJHC. Kill me now! #canucks," tweeted @vancan19, a hockey blogger also known
as Josh Hall from Burnaby, B.C.

The boppy, bratty rock number brings up bad memories for the Vancouver Canucks,
who were bounced by the Blackhawks in the second round of the 2009 and 2010
playoffs.

A Global B.C. reporter famously asked a few Canucks to listen to the song on an
iPod to gauge their responses.

"Nightmare," said defenceman Shane O'Brien.

"Worst song in hockey. I don't even want to listen to it anymore ," snapped
Canucks defence-man Kevin Bieksa.

"I was in the press box last game in Chicago, and I heard it six times - and I
was cringing every time. So we all know about that song in this room - and we
all hate it," Bieksa said.

Of course, not everyone is disgusted with the choice of Chelsea Dagger as Team
Canada's goal song.

Blackhawks fans and Canucks haters seem to be tops among those rallying to the
tune's defence on Twitter:

? ? "Thrilled listening to Chelsea dagger every time Canada scores. nothing like
reminding your fella canadi-ans how much the BLACKHAWKS rule," tweeted
@ImBlairCollins from Grande Prairie.

? ? "I like that Chelsea Dagger is being used as the goal song. Only cause it
will p---off those from Vancouver," posted @TheRatTrick, also known as hockey
blogger Frank Rekas from Plantation, Fla.

The members of The Fratellis, a band from Glasgow, Scotland, are currently
pursuing other projects. Chelsea Dagger was the second single from their debut
album, Costello Music, released in 2006. The Blackhawks started using the song -
about "an androgynous groupie," according to British music magazine NME - during
the 2008-09 NHL season.

"You're just happy for anyone to use something that you do," front-man Jon
Fratelli told aolnews.com about Chicago's use of the song. "It's really handy
that (the Blackhawks) score so much."

Hockey Canada did not respond to interview requests to explain why the song was
chosen.

ssperounes@edmontonjournal.com Twitter.com/Sperounes

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jo Hale, Getty Images, File; Mince, left, Jon and Barry Fratelli,
right, of Scottish rock group The Fratellis;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               24 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             April 17, 2015 Friday
                                Ontario Edition

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS;
Modi attracts protesters in B.C. stop;
Activists take on Indian PM for alleged human-rights abuses, but supporters,
politicians out in force to greet him

BYLINE: IAIN MARLOW, ANDREA WOO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at a Vancouver temple to a crowd of
placard-waving protesters, a reminder that the polarizing Hindu nationalist
politician is beloved by the global business community but still disdained by
many social activists in India and abroad.

On the last leg of the first bilateral visit by a sitting Indian Prime Minister
in 42 years, which was marked earlier by thousands of cheering Indo-Canadians at
the Ricoh Coliseum in Toronto, Mr. Modi stopped at a historic Sikh temple in
Vancouver and a Hindu temple in Surrey, B.C., before heading off for a state
dinner with Prime Minister Stephen Harper.

At the Sikh temple, though, he was greeted by around 200 protesters - a much
different reception from that same morning in Toronto, where he met with a
select group of business leaders from BlackBerry and major banks. The
protesters' signs carried slogans such as "Human rights before trade deals,"
"Modi is a genocide perpetrator" and "Modi is a fascist extremist."

Community organizer Mustafa Alam said the protest was fuelled by what he
described as Mr. Modi's discrimination against religious minorities.

"Modi is a war criminal," Mr. Alam said. "He had been banned previously by other
countries from entering into the state, and here we are in Canada welcoming him,
giving him the red carpet treatment, putting our economic interests before human
rights and justice."

Several signs referred to the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002 in which more
than 1,000 people, mainly Muslims, were killed by mobs when Mr. Modi was the
state's chief minister. Several human rights groups have accused Mr. Modi's
government of indifference as the killings spread. The Supreme Court of India
conducted a special investigation and cleared Mr. Modi of being complicit in the
riots, though many think his administration was partly responsible for not
containing the violence.

Mr. Modi was once refused a visa to visit the U.S. over concern about his role
during the riots.

Canada, however, never refused him a visa because Mr. Modi never asked for one,
said Stewart Beck, Canada's former high commissioner in India who helped cement
Canada's relationship with Mr. Modi.

But in British Columbia as in Ontario, there was also jubilation at the Indian
leader's arrival.

At the Khalsa Diwan Society's Sikh Gurdwara, located on the southern edge of
Vancouver, a large crowd of supporters filed into the temple to see Mr. Modi
speak. The president of the historic Sikh society, which has roots stretching
back more than 100 years in B.C., said Mr. Modi will be the third Indian prime
minister to visit, after Jawaharlal Nehru's visit in 1949 and Indira Gandhi's 42
years ago.

Balwant Sanghera, a retired school psychologist, called Mr. Modi's visit a
historic event, and extolled the Indian leaders as a "man of action" who will
bring progress to India and prosperity to Indo-Canadians.

"It will open a lot of doors for both Canada and India," he said, beneath
fluttering stringers tied between the temple and lamp posts in the parking lot.

"Naturally, any leader will have people who don't agree with them," Mr. Sanghera
added when asked about the protesters. "But I think, on the whole, the
Indo-Canadian community is excited."

At a Hindu temple later, Mr. Modi arrived to chants of "We love Modi. We love
Harper." Mr. Harper introduced the Indian Prime Minister as "one of the world's
great leaders," and noted how remarkable it was that Mr. Modi rose from selling
tea at a small railway station in Gujarat to becoming the leader of the world's
largest democracy. Mr. Modi then spoke briefly about Hinduism, yoga and the
close watch that the Indo-Canadian community is keeping on affairs on the
subcontinent.

"What is going on in India, you know more [than Indians themselves]," he said to
laughter. It's like "when you watch a cricket match in the stadium. You can't
get the full details like when you watch it on TV."

B.C. Premier Christy Clark, who was also on hand to welcome Mr. Modi and Mr.
Harper, dodged repeated questions about Mr. Modi's human rights record in
Gujarat. Instead, she held up his visit as evidence of B.C.'s role in the new
global economy. "We are in a position to really build a partnership with what
will be one of the - if not the - biggest economies in the world," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 30 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             June 14, 2007 Thursday

Tories continue to redress historical wrongs;
But new $24M package for ethnic groups could open floodgates, MP warned

BYLINE: Allan Woods, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 542 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


It appears that being a federal Tory means always saying you're sorry for things
that happened in Canada's past.

One year ago, it was a $42 million pledge to make up for racist Chinese
immigration policies from the early 1900s.

This week, it was $2.5 billion over a decade to speed up aboriginal land claims
settlements.

A government source confirmed yesterday that a $24 million package to deal with
other ethnic groups wronged by Ottawa, known as the Community Historical
Recognition Program, is sailing this week toward its final stage of approval.

The program will fund commemorative projects linked to wartime detention and
immigration restrictions, but it could open the floodgates to other groups
seeking their due, Canadian heritage department bureaucrats warn in a briefing
for Jason Kenney, secretary of state for multiculturalism.

Austro-Hungarians, Bulgarians, Croatians, Doukhobors, Germans, Hutterites,
Indo-Canadians, Jews, Mennonites and Turks are among those who may redouble
efforts for official apologies or financial redress, according to the documents,
released to some media outlets.

Since coming to power in early 2006, the Tories have also been engaged in
compensation talks over the 700 Italians interned during World War II, the
descendants of Chinese head tax payers not covered by last year's deal,
Ukrainians interned during World War I, and Sikhs whose relatives were turned
away from Canada by Canadian warships in 1914.

And if the Tory record is any indication, those groups could have a shot at what
they feel they deserve.

"What I find with some Conservatives is that they could see the injustice in
this particular issue (the Chinese head tax) so they were willing to give it
that extra push that was needed when the bureaucracy ... told them the same
thing they had told previous governments, which was to discourage any kind of a
resolution that included an official apology or direct redress," said Victor
Wong of the Chinese Canadian National Council.

Just last month, B.C. Conservative MP Nina Grewal boasted that the Tories are
"ensuring proper redress" while previous Liberal governments refused to atone
for the Komagata Maru incident, in which a steamer carrying 376 passengers from
Punjab, India, was forced to turn around off the B.C. coast and return to India.
Twenty were subsequently killed in a riot.

"Canada's New Government does more than spout empty rhetoric," Grewal
(Fleetwood-Port Kells) said in a news release. "We provide action and results."

Previous governments appeared beholden to bureaucrats who warned about opening
government coffers to all sorts of aggrieved ethnic groups, said Lubomyr Luciuk
of the Ukrainian Civil Liberties Association, who has campaigned for 20 years
for redress for the Ukrainian internment of 1914 to 1920.

Still, there are indications that the government's effort could fall short.

Its $24 million historical recognition program is being criticized before
details are even finalized.

"Our community said we want a unique and distinct settlement ... that is
independent of any agreements or recognition issues that you have with other
communities," said Luciuk, who outlined his concerns in a letter last week to
Harper that puts the dollar value of the internment at $47 million.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  B.C. Conservative MP Nina Grewal says the government "does more than
spout empty rhetoric."

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2007 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                               26 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      July 4, 2001 Wednesday Final Edition

McClelland pushes for big changes: MLA wants 1 a.m. closing time, rise in
drinking age

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

BYLINE: Graham Thomson Political Editor

SECTION: Alberta; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: Edmonton

Bars should be forced to close two hours earlier and the provincial drinking age
boosted, says Conservative MLA Ian McClelland.

Those are just some of the "draconian" measures that need to be adopted by the
Alberta government and city hall to prevent another liquor-fueled rampage on
Whyte Avenue, says McClelland, chairman of the Edmonton-area Tory caucus of
MLAs.

"I don't care whether people think it's draconian," said

McClelland, who wants the provincial drinking age raised to 21 and bars forced
to close two hours earlier at 1 a.m.

"I don't care whether people think that their rights are being infringed. My
purpose is to curtail the drunken rowdiness that is a function of Whyte Avenue
every weekend. Whyte Avenue is like living right next to a bush party every
weekend."

McClelland owns the French Meadow Cafe on Whyte Avenue which was among the
businesses vandalized in Monday's unprecedented riot. He said drunken
hooliganism is a problem every weekend.

The problem is so acute he expects it will dominate a meeting between the
government's new capital region caucus and city council scheduled for July 25.

But McClelland's call for a clampdown has already fallen on deaf ears in his own
government.

Ron Stevens, minister responsible for the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission,
said he's not going to raise the drinking age or curtail permitted hours for
drinking establishments.

"It is a local issue and it should be addressed in the first instance as a local
issue," said Stevens.

"I think they should be looking at the issue of hours of operation through the
business licensing process."

He pointed out that when Calgary began having similar problems on its notorious
Electric Avenue a decade ago, the city dealt with the problem by cracking down
on bars and drunks without needing help from the province.

Stevens said Edmonton has the power to determine the number of seats in each
establishment, whether business licences are issued or renewed, and can also use
zoning bylaws to determine what businesses are allowed to operate in an area.

New Democrat leader Raj Pannu, the local MLA for Edmonton-Strathcona, agrees
something has to be done about chronic hooliganism and petty vandalism after the
bars close on Whyte Avenue.

"The government ... has been too extravagant in granting licences and
encouraging the development of the hospitality industry," says Pannu.

"There have to be some limits. Now we're beginning to see the risks involved."

Liberal critic Laurie Blakeman is preaching against any crack-down, saying
perhaps bars should be allowed to stay open all night.

"I question why we have an arbitrary time for closing," said Blakeman,
suggesting that if bars stayed open all night, there wouldn't be a rush of
lubricated and frustrated kids simultaneously walking the streets.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               27 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      July 5, 2001 Thursday Final Edition

Police must take some blame for riot: CANADA DAY VIOLENCE

BYLINE: Leah Mayer

SECTION: Letters; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 145 words

I was on Whyte Avenue for 1 1/2 to two hours prior to the start of the "riot."
There was NO police presence on Whyte Ave. before the bars closed. People were
lined up outside of bars, as much as one block, and the street was littered with
people, but no police to do crowd control. Where were they?

I am 24 years old and frequent Whyte Avenue most weekends. I feel safe being
there on a Friday or Saturday night because there ARE police patrolling the area
keeping things under control if need be. I can't for the life of me figure out
why the police were not there for the biggest party of the year -- Canada Day.

I agree that the people of Edmonton acted irresponsibly, but I also blame the
police. They waited until it was too late, and then they had a problem. Which,
in turn, gave the most popular Avenue in Edmonton a bad name.

Leah Mayer,

Edmonton

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward Parsons, The Journal, File; A flag-waving man stands in
front of the advancing police on July 2.

TYPE: Letter

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               28 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      July 12, 2001 Thursday Final Edition

Twisted patriotism: WHYTE AT NIGHT

BYLINE: Roberta Gramlich

SECTION: Letters; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 206 words

I am the first to admit that I am an extremely patriotic Canadian. However,
after reading the July 6 article "Edgy, proud, in your face -- is this what
Canadians have become," I was quite disgusted.

It seems that some have confused "Canada" with the beer "Canadian," or any other
beer brewed in this wonderful land, for that matter.

At first the article explains that the Molson's advertising campaign "celebrates
Canada and the pride we feel ..." This seems harmless enough, even positive.

However, the article goes on to quote the ad agency: "Canadians are proud of
their beer, proud above all that it is better than American beer."

Excuse me? Am I the only one who is disturbed by the idea that we apparently are
not proud of our diverse cultures, two official languages, native peoples,
relatively peaceful history, artists, freedoms, etc.? Am I the only one too
naive to realize that the only things that unite us all as Canadians are our
strong beers, clever ads and hockey games (with beer of course)?

Maybe if more citizens spent less money buying into Molson's capitalist traps
they would actually be able to afford to explore more of what this great nation
of ours has to offer.

Roberta Gramlich, Barrhead

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               29 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    November 27, 2001 Tuesday Final Edition

Bail denied for accused in Whyte riot

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

BYLINE: Journal Staff

SECTION: City; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: Edmonton

Clayton Bernard Augier was denied bail Monday after missing his trial last week
on charges stemming from the Canada Day riot on Whyte Avenue.

Augier didn't have papers showing the trial date and was told the wrong day by
someone else, his lawyer told provincial court Judge Dan Abbott.

The judge wasn't impressed.

"That's sort of like 'the dog ate my homework,' " Abbott said, adding later, "I
get the impression he does the things that he does because he feels like it, and
if he doesn't feel like appearing in court then he doesn't do it."

Augier, 31, is charged with participating in a riot, shopbreaking, possession of
stolen property, causing a disturbance and obstruction of justice.

He's to appear in court this morning to set a new trial date.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Crime

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               30 of 30 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    December 18, 2001 Tuesday Final Edition

Riot sentence cheered

BYLINE: Charlene Andersen

SECTION: Letters; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 54 words

The article on the rioter that got one year in jail was welcome news. There will
be more rioters caught and sentenced.

The Edmonton Police Service is trying hard to make our community a safe place to
live.

Why can't the media do its part and publish photos of these offenders?

Charlene Andersen,

St. Albert

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved
