
                             501 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

New riots in Moroccan phosphate region over jobs

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 369 words



HIGHLIGHT: Moroccan security forces used truncheons, tear gas and water canons
on protesters demanding jobs, local residents said yesterday, in a bid to tame a
third day of riots in the country's phosphate-mining central area.



 Government officials could not immediately be reached for comment, while a
spokesman for the state-run phosphate monopoly, OCP, said there were protests,
but stopped short of calling them riots.



 Riots broke out in March in the same Khouribga province, home to the country's
biggest phosphate mines. Morocco is the world's top phosphate reserves holder
and a key supplier of fertilisers and phosphoric acid.

 Hajjaj Assal, who heads the local section of the country's main human rights
group, AMDH, said 30 protesters had been arrested since Tuesday and some of them
were put on trial on Thursday.

 "Riots are still ongoing in the Lebyout district of Khouribga and in the
neighbouring towns of Hattan and Boujniba," he told Reuters.

 "The riots started after OCP issued a list of few hundreds of beneficiaries of
jobs which disappointed youths from the region as there had been more than
30,000 applicants," Assal said.

 Residents from Khouribga confirmed the information.

 "Several were wounded among protesters and the anti-riot forces. Protesters
used stones while anti-riot police used water canons and tear gas," said a
resident in Hattan who asked not to be named.

 Assal also said an unspecified number of protesters and members of the police
force were wounded during the riots.

 The protesters ransacked a commissary belonging to OCP in Khouribga, the local
governors' offices and town halls in the mining towns of Hattan and Boujniba,
Assal added.

 Hassan Berranoun, head of media relations at OCP, said there "were problems
between the police and protesters " in the Khouribga region and that the OCP
commissary was ransacked on Tuesday.

 The monopoly, which is Morocco's top export earner, said in March registered
applicants would be given training courses within few weeks. It hired 6,000
people over the past five years, a third of its workforce, it added.

 Berranoun said the number of applicants has exceeded 36,000.

 The company is providing 5,800 jobs immediately and would give paid training to
an additional 15,000, which he said was unprecedented in Morocco.

 Unemployment in Morocco officially stands at around 9 percent, rising to 18
percent among graduates and 33 percent among Moroccans aged below 35.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             502 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Facts on File World News Digest

                                October 27, 2005

Great Britain;
Man Killed in Birmingham Race Riots

SECTION: Pg. 761D2

LENGTH: 247 words


Race riots pitting blacks against Pakistanis October 22 erupted in the city of
Birmingham in central England. A black man, Isiah Young-Sam, 23, was stabbed to
death. Hundreds of police clashed with the rioters, and one officer was shot in
the leg. Rioters smashed shop windows and torched automobiles. Another man,
Aaron James, 18, was shot dead the next day in nearby Newtown, but police said
they had not yet established whether the shooting was connected to the riots.
[See 2001 Great Britain: Race Riots Erupt in Bradford; Other Developments; 1985
Great Britain: Birmingham Riots Erupt]

Police October 24 said Young-Sam had not been involved in the riots but had been
walking home from the movies with his brother and two friends when a group of at
least 10 men attacked them.

The riots took place in the Lozells district of Birmingham, which had also been
hit by the Handsworth riots in 1985. The area had large communities of people of
Caribbean and Pakistani origin. Unemployment and poverty were widespread and
gang violence was on the rise in both minority communities.

The riots began after black media outlets circulated a rumor that a group of
Pakistani men had gang-raped a 14-year-old black girl after she was caught
shoplifting in a Pakistani-owned store. Police reportedly had found no evidence
that any such incident had occurred. But blacks had staged a demonstration
outside the store and other protests during the week between the alleged rape
and the riots.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 Facts on File, Inc.


                             503 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

2002 Gujarat Riots: State's job to repair masjids, Centre to SC

BYLINE: utkarsh anand

LENGTH: 449  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


When Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, the state government had
appealed against a high court order, directing it to repair and restore mosques,
dargahs and other religious sites damaged in the 2002 post-Godhra riots.

Now, when he is the Prime Minister, the central government has told the Supreme
Court that it has no obligation regarding restoration of religious places
damaged in the communal riots and that the accountability has to be fixed with
the state government. In its first affidavit into the matter, the Centre has
said: "It is primarily the responsibility of the state government to maintain
law and order in the state and to provide security, relief, rehabilitation and
to compensate riot victims."

Putting the onus on the Gujarat government, the Ministry of Home Affairs has
said that the 'public order' and 'police' are state subjects and hence the state
government was answerable to the queries of the top court regarding repairs and
restoration of mosques, dargahs, graveyards, khankahs and other religious sites.
"The central government, however, has provided ex-gratia to the victims of
Gujarat riots in cases of death, injury and damages to residential and uninsured
commercial properties, on the pattern of the package announced for the victims
of anti-Sikh riots of 1984," it stated.

The Home Ministry added that the report of the National Human Rights Commission
(NHRC) on the post-Godhra riots was forwarded to the Gujarat Chief Secretary for
taking necessary action after placing it in the state legislature. "Hence, the
main contesting respondent is the state of Gujarat," it said.

The affidavit has been filed by the Ministry in the appeal by Gujarat government
against the 2012 High Court order, directing it to repair religious places
damaged in the post-Godhra riots. While pulling up the state government for its
"inaction and negligence" during the riots, the high court had also ordered
compensation for over 500 places of worships in the state on a PIL by Islamic
Relief Committee of Gujarat, an NGO.

After the high court had criticised the state government for not tabling the
NHRC report within six months of it being prepared, the 2002-03 report was
tabled in Gujarat assembly in March 2012, nearly 10 years after the subsequent
riots. In its report, the NHRC had censured the state.

In its earlier hearings, the apex court gave an option to the Gujarat government
for formulating a scheme for repairing religious places damaged during the riots
on the lines of its earlier order where it had asked the Odisha government to
formulate a scheme for repairing churches damaged during the 2009 Kandhamal
riots.

The  case will be heard next on August 19.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             504 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

2002 Gujarat Riots: State's job to repair masjids, Centre to SC

BYLINE: utkarsh anand

LENGTH: 449  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


When Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, the state government had
appealed against a high court order, directing it to repair and restore mosques,
dargahs and other religious sites damaged in the 2002 post-Godhra riots.

Now, when he is the Prime Minister, the central government has told the Supreme
Court that it has no obligation regarding restoration of religious places
damaged in the communal riots and that the accountability has to be fixed with
the state government. In its first affidavit into the matter, the Centre has
said: "It is primarily the responsibility of the state government to maintain
law and order in the state and to provide security, relief, rehabilitation and
to compensate riot victims."

Putting the onus on the Gujarat government, the Ministry of Home Affairs has
said that the 'public order' and 'police' are state subjects and hence the state
government was answerable to the queries of the top court regarding repairs and
restoration of mosques, dargahs, graveyards, khankahs and other religious sites.
"The central government, however, has provided ex-gratia to the victims of
Gujarat riots in cases of death, injury and damages to residential and uninsured
commercial properties, on the pattern of the package announced for the victims
of anti-Sikh riots of 1984," it stated.

The Home Ministry added that the report of the National Human Rights Commission
(NHRC) on the post-Godhra riots was forwarded to the Gujarat Chief Secretary for
taking necessary action after placing it in the state legislature. "Hence, the
main contesting respondent is the state of Gujarat," it said.

The affidavit has been filed by the Ministry in the appeal by Gujarat government
against the 2012 High Court order, directing it to repair religious places
damaged in the post-Godhra riots. While pulling up the state government for its
"inaction and negligence" during the riots, the high court had also ordered
compensation for over 500 places of worships in the state on a PIL by Islamic
Relief Committee of Gujarat, an NGO.

After the high court had criticised the state government for not tabling the
NHRC report within six months of it being prepared, the 2002-03 report was
tabled in Gujarat assembly in March 2012, nearly 10 years after the subsequent
riots. In its report, the NHRC had censured the state.

In its earlier hearings, the apex court gave an option to the Gujarat government
for formulating a scheme for repairing religious places damaged during the riots
on the lines of its earlier order where it had asked the Odisha government to
formulate a scheme for repairing churches damaged during the 2009 Kandhamal
riots.

The  case will be heard next on August 19.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             505 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                            February 2, 2015 Monday
                                Kolkata Edition

Delhi Decides 2015 Govt to Form SIT to Probe '84 Sikh Riots, Cong Calls it a
Poll Gimmick

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 492 words


The government is set to form a special investigation team (SIT) to probe afresh
cases related to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots which were closed earlier by the Delhi
Police and CBI, government officials confirmed on Sunday.

The Congress called it "a gimmick by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to woo voters"
ahead of the Delhi assembly elections scheduled for next Saturday . Sikhs in
Delhi constitute a significant vote bank. Some senior Congress leaders were
among those accused in the 1984 riots, triggered by the assassination of then
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.

The official home ministry spokesperson didn't confirm the news. Announcing such
a decision now could violate the model code of conduct.The ministry had last
year invited the wrath of the Election Commis

sion for unofficially announcing an enhanced compensation package for the
anti-Sikh riot victims in the midst of Delhi by-polls.

The move to set up a SIT follows the recommendations of a committee

headed by former Supreme Court judge GP Mathur, which was set up on December 23.
ET had reported that the government was likely to set up an investigation team
post the submission of the report as the

principal terms of reference for the committee was to look closely into the
demand for probes. The committee submitted its report within 45 days though it
had three months to do so. Interestingly, Arvind Kejri

Kejriwal, while he was Delhi chief minister for 49 days, had announced setting
up of a SIT to reinvestigate the riots, but it didn't materialise as he
resigned. Senior CBI officials and Delhi Police officials who have probed a few
of the 1984 riot cases told ET that finding concrete evidence against
perpetrators of the violence after 30 years may be an "uphill task". Also many
key witnesses are not alive, which will make any fresh probe even more
difficult. The Congress, meanwhile, said if the Centre were serious about
probing riot cases, it should also investigate those in Gujarat and Muzaffar
Nagar. "Why raise the issue (of ordering SIT) just four-five days prior to
elections? Is this an electoral ploy? Justice cannot be an electoral game," said
spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala. The Akali Dal, which is a BJP ally, has
welcomed the move. "Akali Dal has been fighting for a long time for justice for
the 1984 riots and now we are thankful to the Prime Minister who has created
this committee," Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Committee chief
Manjit Singh said.

Diggy Questions RSS' Role in Riots

NEW DELHI Digvijay Singh on Sunday questioned the "role" of RSS in the antiSikh
riots as a governmentappointed panel has recommended a SIT probe in the 1984
riots."One aspect on which the media and others have been silent is the role of
the RSS activists in the Sikh riots," Congress general secretary said.In the
backdrop of cases against some Congress leaders in the riots, Singh said that
the issue has been investigated and people have been put to trial in courts.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             506 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                               February 19, 2003

AN OFFICIAL SECRET

SECTION: News; Other; Prisons; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 553 words


An official inquiry into last year's riot at Lincoln Prison will not be made
public, it was revealed today.  Investigators have spent the last three months
trying to discover why, and how, the riot happened.

During an eight-hour period, more than 150 inmates went on a rampage starting
fires, raiding the pharmacy and assaulting a prison officer.

But the Prison Service report into the causes and implications of the riot is to
remain secret.

During the riot, on Wednesday and Thursday, October 23 and 24, the Greetwell
Road prison's A wing was almost destroyed. B and C wings were also damaged.

Ongoing repairs to the prison are estimated to cost in the region of GBP
500,000.

A spokesman for the Prison Service, speaking on behalf of governor of Lincoln
Prison Jackie Tilley, said it was standard practice to carry out an internal
inquiry into such disturbances.

He said: "The inquiry is to do with the workings, the procedures and the
security of the prison and as such it is an internal inquiry.

"There is no precedent for such inquiries to be made public. We want to find out
what happened so that we can prevent a similar incident occurring in the
future." It is not known when the inquiry will finish, or its cost.

The riot started when an inmate attacked a prison officer at about 8pm on the
first day.

During and in the immediate aftermath of the riot 31 prisoners required hospital
treatment.

More than 200 police officers were called to surround the prison and control was
regained at about 4.20am on the second day.

People living around the prison said they wanted to know the conclusions of the
inquiry.

Diane Perry, from Greetwell Place, said the night of the riots was "very
disturbed".

She said: " We knew it was a major incident but we didn't know what was
happening exactly." Mrs Perry said she wanted to find out why the riot had
occurred.

She said: "I think a lot of people are interested in what the report will say -
after all it is taxpayers' money which is paying for it." On Thursday, October
24, the vice-president of the Prison Officers Association, Steve Gillan, said
overcrowding in the prison and shortage of staff were factors in the riot.

At the time of the riot, there were 20 officers guarding 570 inmates at the
prison.

But at the same press conference, director general of the prison service Martin
Narey said that though the prison was overcrowded, this was not a cause of the
riot.

He said the prisoners had executed a carefully planned take over.

Kate McFarlane, from Queensway, off Greetwell Road, said it was important for
society to learn lessons from the riot.

She said: "I can fully understand why parts of the report would not be made
available to the public for security reasons.

"But the riot has raised issues that the public needs to know about. We need to
know how our prisons are being run and we need to know how prisoners are
treated.

"If overcrowding or procedures within the prison were factors we need to know
about them." If you would like to see the report made public, write to The
Secretariat, HM Prison Service Headquarters, Cleland House, Page Street, London,
SW1P 4LN.

Or write to the Echo at Your View at Lincolnshire Echo, Brayford Wharf East,
Lincoln LN5 7AT.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2003 Lincolnshire Echo


                             507 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       August 5, 2016 Friday 4:00 PM GMT

Conditions that caused English riots even worse now, says leading expert;
Prof Tim Newburn, who conducted major research into the 2011 riots, says it's
not implausible there could be more unrest

BYLINE: Zoe Williams and Carmen Fishwick

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1271 words


Tim Newburn, the LSE professor of criminology who conducted the leading research
on the UK riots of five years ago has said many of the underlying conditions
that helped cause them had now worsened.

Prof Newburn, speaking ahead of Saturday's anniversary of the outbreak of the
2011 riots in London, which spread further around the country, said there had
not been enough improvement.

"The underlying conditions for those riots still persist," Newburn told the
Guardian, and iterated those conditions: rioters were drawn from the poorest
communities, had a sense of being constantly harassed by the police, felt that
their opportunities were limited and shrinking, and that the dearth of services
and chances around them was the result of deliberate political choices, made by
rich people who themselves behaved with impunity.

Related:  It's five years since the English riots, but the rifts in society are
wider than ever | David Lammy

"There's no real sign that things have improved for the lives of the kinds of
people who were involved and caught up in the riots. Certainly it's not
implausible that there could be more riots. But that's not the same thing as
expecting riots," he said.

This lack of progress, Newburn traces directly to the political response in
August 2011 in the wake of what he called "possibly the most significant civil
disorder in the post-war period".

Newburn, whose researchers partnered with the Guardian in the Reading the Riots
study, said: "From the very moment of the Cameronesque [judgement] 'criminality,
pure and simple', the political diagnosis was, 'you don't need to look below the
surface here because there's nothing to find. This is just people behaving
criminally and immorally. As soon as the cops have learnt to do their job, it
will all be fine'. There was no sense that public policy had any role to play.
So I don't think there's been any public policy response that you could link
directly to the riots."

Newburn added: "I'd say everything's worsened. I think politically things have
worsened for those people. Economically, they have too."

The riots erupted after the police fatally shot Mark Duggan on Thursday 4 August
2011 as they attempted to arrest him in Tottenham. On the Saturday, there was a
protest outside the police station over the killing; disorder flared later that
day in the area and then spread.

David Lammy, the Labour MP for Tottenham, echoed Newburn's argument, writing on
the Guardian that the " rifts in society are wider than ever ".

'I remember thinking, the youth had spoken...'

Tottenham High Road, where a protest outside the police station turned to
burning buildings and spilled into a ransacked retail park, still bears the odd
scar.

The Post Office burnt down, and is now in rather shambolic temporary premises 50
yards down the street, with a mobile phone unblocker in the corner and a fish
stall on its doorstep.

Related:  UK riots: Paul Lewis's five-day journey

A man in Anil foods, one of the many Turkish shops that wasn't looted, said:
"The Poundland was on fire on one side. Post Office on fire the other," he said,
brusquely.

In the Costa in the nearby retail park, Abuntu and Lisa , two 32-year-olds who
were at school together (not their real names), remembered it with the vividness
of post-traumatic stress. "These kids were running down the street with giant
screens in shopping trolleys. They all had bandanas on, and Marigolds. It was
unbelievable. I'd just had a baby, she was three weeks old," Lisa recalled.

Abuntu added in: "Everything was on fire. I was heavily pregnant, and I just sat
there, thinking ... not 'judgment day' but ... like the youth had spoken. A lot
of youth provisions had been cut." Lisa disagreed forcefully. "A lot of young
people got involved and didn't even know what they were rioting for. There's a
hell of a lot of opportunities, there's a huge amount that people just don't
access."

Abuntu worked in a youth programme that had had it's funding cut a month before
the riots; Lisa worked in young offending. They disagreed on everything from the
causes of the riots to the harshness of the sentences ("the police were still
knocking on doors a year later," Lisa said approvingly, while Abuntu countered
sadly: "There was a lot of young kids going to prison, and that's a stain on
them, isn't it?") to the regeneration since.

Brandon was 13 when the riots broke out: he's now 18, and waiting to find out
whether or not he's got in to UCL to read mechanical engineering. He has no time
for rioters: "It was just people being selfish and out for their personal gain",
and no time even for people caught up in trouble who didn't necessarily do
anything. "You should be at home. If trouble's there, you should be at home."

But it's not always that easy: Moin, 27, remembers the night of the riot,
driving down Tottenham Hale, boggling at the fires, but mainly the next morning.
"I was going to pray with my dad, it was five in the morning, and we got stopped
by the police. I can understand, people are doing their jobs. I'm not an
argumentative person. But my dad is an argumentative person. He feels
humiliated."

I asked if that was the first time it had happened, and he laughed. "No, I live
in Edmonton, I get stopped all the time. I'll be honest with you, it'll never
change. It hasn't been easy, living round here, from a Muslim background."
Abuntu said that whenever she sees a young black man stopped by police, she
stops her car to watch, to check that they're being treated properly. "I'm often
asked to move on. It's terrible for their self-esteem. I'm so glad I haven't got
a son."

If stop-and-search is still an issue, the economic conditions have changed
somewhat: Guardian analysis of the key wards in the east of the borough showed
benefit claims hitting a peak in August 2011. They were also at a record high
for the riots in 1985.

Since then, claims all over the country including this area have gone down: yet
most people, from Prof Newburn to Tracey, 54, whose daughter lost her job when
the shop she worked at was burnt down and had to move out of the area, point to
social cleansing rather than improved prospects for the original residents.

Related:  Five years after the riots, tension in Tottenham has not gone away

"I've been at a meeting," Newburn said, "where people in Tottenham were talking
about the local community, the regeneration around Tottenham Hotspur, and the
overriding emotion was one of anger: the money wasn't really going to where it
was needed, but actually it was aiding the gentrification of a poor area".

Critics have questioned some of the fall in benefit claimants citing moves to
impose sanctions on jobseekers' allowance and caps on benefits, including
housing benefit, arguing this has driven poorer families out of London.

And yet, more broadly, from Clapham Junction to Croydon, the overwhelming human
urge to put a positive spin on almost anything ("my house got bombed but it
brought out this beautiful Blitz spirit!") nudges its way through.

Amy, 28, works at the Clapham Junction party shop that famously caused Twitter
hysteria when it was set on fire, being full of helium canisters (which,
thankfully, did not ignite).

"We had a week off, but most of us had holiday to take. And then Clapham
Junction had such a good reaction that we had a concession [a small store within
a department store] in Debenhams by October. We had to be up and running by
Halloween, otherwise we'd have gone under. But now we've got concessions in
Croydon, Guildford, Woking, Harrow. And I'm a supervisor. I used to be a sales
assistant."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             508 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday
                                 State Edition

Major boost to the riot squad

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 119  words


THE State Government is expected to announce major changes to the riot squad
this weekend following the fallout from the Cronulla riots.

Riot squad commander Superintendent Steve Cullen is expected to be promoted to a
newly created position as assistant commissioner in charge of public order
management.

Mr Cullen was a tactical adviser for the Cronulla riots but was not criticised
in the recent report into the riots, conducted by former assistant commissioner
Norm Hazzard.

Police sources predict the squad of almost 50 riot squad officers will soon be
boosted to 200 officers -- an increase being pushed for by the Pol-

ice Association.

Mr Cullen recently took a course on advanced public order command in England.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             509 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 4, 1991 Wednesday

Rioting, looting   sweep across U.K.   Restoration of 18th-century riot laws
sought by hard-pressed police forces

BYLINE: REUT

LENGTH: 534 words

DATELINE: London ENGLAND


Reuters News Agency
  LONDON
 An explosion of rioting, looting and stabbing in cities across sweltering
Britain led police yesterday to call for the restoration of 18th-century
riot laws.

Two women were stabbed and two men were injured early yesterday in a
riot in the English city of Oxford, known more for its ancient university
and tranquil streets than as a hotbed of violence.

Youths, throwing bricks and bottles, fought running battles with police
in riot gear in the Handsworth district of Birmingham.

And in the Welsh capital, Cardiff, riot officers arrested 11 people
after more than 300 youngsters hurled stones and blocks of wood at police
lines during a fourth night of disturbances.

"We and the government have a duty to protect law-abiding citizens from
mindless hooliganism . . . and we would wish to see the reintroduction of
the Riot Act," said Alan Eastwood, leader of the police union.

The Riot Act of 1714, repealed in 1967, allowed the authorities to
arrest anyone who disobeyed an order to move on. Under current laws,
individuals have to be caught committing a crime.

Britain was hit by a series of violent race riots in the hot summer of
1981 when buildings in areas of London, Liverpool and Manchester were set
on fire.

The latest clashes highlight fears among police chiefs and community
leaders that violence in many parts of Britain, even country towns, can be
triggered by sometimes insignificant events.

Some experts said 1981 and 1991 were times of deep recession in Britain
and riots flared in poor areas where unemployment is high. But hot weather
was also a factor.

"The pattern is hot summer nights, people milling around on the streets
and, usually, inhibitions released with alcohol," said George Gaskell,
senior lecturer in social psychology at the London School of Economics.

In Oxford, youths say they have been spoiling for a fight with police
who have been trying to crack down on their new craze, "hotting" - racing
up and down streets in stolen, high-performance cars.

Joy riders on a run-down housing project in the city have been
attracting sizable crowds to watch them "hotting." Onlookers, some sitting
on deck chairs, are charged L1 ($1.92) to watch.

Richard Pledge, a teen-ager at the project, said that if a person "is
careless enough to get a L20,000 car stolen, then he deserves to get it
trashed."

He told the Mirror newspaper: "Sometimes, when a car doesn't perform
well, the driver will set fire to it to show his contempt."

Melvyn Davies, an Oxford resident who needed stitches in his face after
being hit with a baseball bat in the riot, said: "Oxford wants to get back
to being a city of dreaming spires. These people have got to be stamped
on."

South Wales police said troublemakers used a dispute over the sale of
bread between two shopkeepers on a dilapidated housing project in Cardiff
as an excuse to riot.

Looters ransacked shops in Handsworth after a power cut plunged the
area into darkness. Police arrested 16 people for theft and burglary.

"Literally every day of the year, in the inner cities, the police sit
on potential rioting. The sensitivity with which they deal with it decides
whether or not there will be a riot," West Midlands Police Chief Ronald
Hadfield said on television.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1991 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             510 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

The Rebirth Of History: Times Of Riots And Uprisings

BYLINE: Angel Dahouk

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 325 words


While the author sees a potential for change in this period of revolt, he is
also realistic about the shortfalls of a riot as opposed to a revolution. A riot
, Badiou contends, is an "event" - the opening of a possibility of a new world -
and he outlines three types. Last year's London riots fall into the "immediate"
category, spearheaded as they were by youth in their local area.

Almost invariably, such riots are in reaction to an injustice committed by the
state. The French petrol refinery blockades of 2010 are an example of a "latent"
riot - an underlying resistance and mobilisation which has the potential to
become tumultuous. It crosses boundaries of location, bringing varied groups
from across society together on a protest site. While being peaceful, it is
powerfully resistant. It is controlled without being controlled. The progression
of both immediate and latent riots might create what Badiou terms an
"historical" riot, illustrated by the uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia from 2010
onwards, in which a siege in a central location assembles a multiplicity of
voices and creates a unification of people. Yet Badiou claims that none of these
three types of riot can lead to change without a shared idea - the "event"
itself is not enough to present an alternative to the dominant order. It must
have the means within itself, the idea and the resources, to immediately seize
power and assert a new order, one which Badiou declares must be communism. While
representing a departure from Marxist dialectics - for which he is often
criticised - this book demonstrates that Badiou's ideas make an important
contribution to the materialist tradition. His writing is engaging and follows a
clear system of thought which he illustrates with current examples. But his
idealism, which sometimes overlooks the objective and scientific reality of
social structures, sees Badiou leaping from revolt to rebirth on a tightrope
that might not quite hold.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             511 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    June 12, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Vancouver victimized by riot, court told

BYLINE: LARRY STILL; VANSUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 355 words


The city of Vancouver was the primary victim of the Stanley Cup riot that
erupted June 14, 1994 in the downtown core, a prosecutor told a court Tuesday.

Robert Mitchinson, saying the cost of the riot totalled more than $ 1 million,
submitted what he called a "community impact statement" on behalf of the city.

The prosecutor detailed the cost of the riot at a hearing in which he urged a
court to sentence Ryan Michael Berntt, 21, to a substantial prison term for his
role in the riot.

Urging the court to impose a penalty in the 18- to 21-month range, Mitchinson
said general deterrence should be the primary consideration.

Defence lawyer Richard Brooks, noting that Berntt received a serious brain
injury when struck in the head by a plastic bullet fired by police during the
riot, suggested that the injury was sufficient punishment for his client.

Describing his client as the "general deterrence poster boy," Brooks asked the
judge not to send Berntt to prison.

Mitchinson, opposing the defence lawyer's argument, said it would create a new
principle if an offender were handed a lighter sentence because he suffered as a
result of his criminal activity.

B.C. Supreme Court Justice David Campbell, saying he needed time to consider
whether any allowance should be made for Berntt's injury, adjourned sentencing
to Friday.

Mitchinson told the court in his impact statement that 92 business premises were
damaged during the riot for a total cost of $ 467,127. The value of goods looted
from stores totalled $ 346,888. He said damage to private property, including
vandalized cars, totalled $ 115,150.

He said overtime for Emergency Health Services personnel totalled $ 8,400, while
the riot cost the sheriff's service $ 5,200 in overtime and damaged vehicles.

Overtime for the fire department totalled $ 16,000, while the extra cost of
policing the riot totalled $ 195,600.

The prosecutor said 30 police officers made claims through the Workers'
Compensation Board for injuries suffered during the riot. A total of 89 persons
were treated at the emergency department at St. Paul's Hospital.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             512 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 5, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Panel Recommends Reparations In Long-Ignored Tulsa Race Riot

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1399 words

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Feb. 4


Nearly 80 years after this city erupted in what many historians regard as the
nation's bloodiest race riot, a state commission today recommended reparations
be made to the aged black survivors who watched as people were shot, burned
alive or tied to cars and dragged to death.

The preliminary findings of the Tulsa Race Riot Commission are expected to
provoke a contentious debate in the Oklahoma Legislature, which convenes on
Monday. The Legislature created the commission more than two years ago to
investigate a massacre long obscured in history. But the issue of reparations is
controversial. Many lawmakers oppose any payments, and recent polls suggest that
a majority of residents share that opinion.

A final decision on reparations may be many months away, at best, and the
commission did not estimate their cost. The Legislature must first decide
whether to extend the life of the commission, whose term expires on Monday even
though it has not completed a final report. But the commission's 7-to-4 vote in
favor of reparations was a firm statement that advocates hope will lend moral
weight to helping the riot's survivors.

"The Legislature may not do what we think is the right thing," said Dr. Vivian
N. Clark, a commission member. "But the world is looking at them, so whatever
they do will reflect on the state of Oklahoma."

The riot occurred in 1921, and while 40 deaths have been documented, the
commission's historian, Scott Ellsworth, has said that interviews and records
indicate that the actual death toll could be as high as 300 people. In
justifying reparations, the commission noted that the attack far surpassed the
1923 massacre in Rosewood, Fla., in which whites destroyed the small town and
killed at least six black residents. In 1994, the Florida Legislature provided
up to $2 million to compensate survivors. The commission also noted that
Congress authorized $1 billion to revitalize south-central Los Angeles after the
1992 riots.

The workings of the Race Riot Commission have sparked a remarkable and often
uncomfortable period of introspection in Oklahoma. For decades, the riots were
never publicly discussed in Tulsa, nor mentioned in classrooms or textbooks.
Many residents had no idea that whites burned the city's once-prosperous black
community to the ground.

But the commission has collected thousands of documents, many found in attics or
dusty file rooms. More than 1,000 elderly people have called with information,
and investigators have found 80 survivors, many of them elderly and infirm. The
commission's plans to excavate a section of a city cemetery in search of a mass
grave of riot victims was postponed by Tulsa city officials last week because of
bad weather and information that suggested they might be looking in the wrong
place.

Two commission members, State Senator Robert V. Milacek and State Representative
Abe Deutschendorf, voted against the reparations resolution because they did not
think the wording should suggest that the state, unlike the city of Tulsa, bore
any culpability for the massacre. Mr. Milacek said many lawmakers were likely to
oppose reparations for fear that allowing them could establish a precedent for
other communities to seek redress for past injustices.

"Where does it end?" asked Mr. Milacek, a Republican who said he had agonized
over the issue and considered the riot a blight on the state.

Gov. Frank Keating, a Republican, has endorsed direct reparations to survivors
but expressed skepticism about broader payments. In today's meeting, the
commission recommended, among other things, direct payments to survivors and
descendants of those killed, scholarships for students in the Greenwood district
where the riot occurred, the creation of an economic empowerment zone and a
monument memorializing the event.

Last November, a subcommittee of the Race Riot Commission recommended that $33
million be paid in reparations, an amount that stunned the public. But today,
the commission intentionally did not recommend a dollar amount, deferring that
responsibility to lawmakers. But the preliminary report that will be presented
next week does mention a figure, $12 million.

State Representative Don Ross, a Democrat who represents the Greenwood
neighborhood, said he did not want the Legislature to consider voting on
reparations until a final report was drafted. Mr. Ross plans to introduce a bill
next week to reauthorize the commission, and he said a final report would better
establish the historical record and more firmly determine culpability.

"I can't help but believe that if a compelling document is delivered that the
attitude of the Legislature will change," Mr. Ross said.

"There is no statute of limitations on a moral obligation," he added.

Alfred L. Brophy, an Oklahoma City University law professor who researched the
issue for the commission, said there was compelling legal and moral
justification for reparations, even though the historical record was incomplete.
He said preliminary research indicated that city officials not only failed to
protect the lives of black residents but also contributed to the riot by
deputizing many members of the white mob that attacked Greenwood. He also noted
that promises to rebuild Greenwood were never fulfilled.

The commission was created in 1997 by a law written by Mr. Ross, for whom the
attack has been a defining crusade. The commission is led by Bob L. Blackburn,
the chairman of the state historical society, and includes lawmakers, historians
and at least one survivor of the riots.

Mr. Ross learned about the riot when a teacher mentioned it to him as a young
boy. He was infuriated and incredulous at the story. In segregated Tulsa, the
Greenwood community once had been a thriving black business and residential
district. It was home to 15,000 people and 191 businesses.

On the morning of May 30, 1921, a black shoe-shiner named Dick Rowland and a
white elevator operator named Sarah Page had an encounter inside an elevator at
the Drexel Building on Main Street. Exactly what happened is not known, though
the commission suggested that Mr. Rowland may have accidentally brushed against
Ms. Page. But a scream was heard, and Mr. Rowland was eventually arrested on a
rape charge. He was released when Ms. Page refused to press charges.

But the fuse for the riot had been lighted. A white-owned newspaper, The Tulsa
Tribune, published an article with the headline, "To Lynch Negro Tonight." On
May 31, an armed white mob arrived at the courthouse to carry out the lynching.
They were met by blacks who had arrived to protect Mr. Rowland, and a gunfight
claimed several lives.

The fight moved across the railroad tracks into Greenwood after the Tulsa police
deputized a large number of whites, many of whom were members of the Ku Klux
Klan.

The commission's final report is expected to detail what happened, but this much
is known: whites set fire to buildings and homes, ultimately looting and burning
more than 1,200 structures. Klansmen reportedly raged through the streets
shooting people. Survivors told of corpses stacked onto wagons and trucks.

In the years that followed, the promised rebuilding of Greenwood never happened.
Instead, insurance companies refused to pay fire policies, citing special riot
exemptions. Whites ultimately took over much of the land. Today, Greenwood is
the site of the Oklahoma State University at Tulsa campus, where the commission
held its meeting.

In the audience, a few survivors had come for the vote.

Annie Beaird, 86, recalled the sounds of bullets and the sight of black men
rushing to defend their neighborhood. Ms. Beaird, who breathed through an oxygen
tube and was in a wheelchair, said reparations are appropriate since her
family's four-room house was destroyed.

"I think they should give us something," she said. "We lost everything we had."

The Members of Tulsa Committee

Following are the members of the 1921 Tulsa Race Riot Commission and the towns
in Oklahoma where they live:

BALLARD, Currie, Checotah.
BLACKBURN, Bob L., chairman, Oklahoma City.
BURNS, Joe R., Tulsa.
CHURCHWELL, T. D., Tulsa.
CLARK, Vivian N., Tulsa.
DEUTSCHENDORF, Abe, Lawton.
GATES, Eddie Faye, Tulsa.
LLOYD, Jim, Sand Springs.
MILACEK, Robert, Waukomis.
MONSON, Gracie M., Oklahoma City.
WADE, Blake, Oklahoma City.
WHITE, Jimmie, Checotah.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2000, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

A list of members of the Tulsa Race Riot Commission on Saturday with an article
about its recommendation for reparations to survivors of the 1921 violence
included a name erroneously in some copies. Blake Wade is no longer a member.



GRAPHIC: Photo: An Oklahoma commission recommended yesterday that reparations be
made to George Monroe, right, and other black survivors of a race riot in Tulsa
in 1921. After the riot, detainees were led to Convention Hall. (Associated
Press)(pg. A12)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             513 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 22, 2015 Friday

Riot Fest offers ticket refunds after venue change

BYLINE: Leonor Vivanco, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


May 22--A day after announcing a venue change, Riot Fest organizers sent an
email on Thursday to people who purchased early bird tickets, notifying them
that the tickets will be honored at its new home in Chicago's Douglas Park and
offering a full refund until Monday if they no longer want to go to the fest,
set for Sept. 11-13.

"While we are saddened to move the festival away from Humboldt Park, we are very
excited about the new prospects that Douglas Park has to offer including
convenient transportation options and its scenic park layout," Riot Fest wrote
in the email.

Now, concertgoers are eager to hear news of the lineup, which Riot Fest said
will be released next week. Riot Fest was waiting to announce the venue before
selling general tickets. The concert site said the sale of general tickets is
coming soon.

Riot Fest announced Wednesday that it was moving the show to Douglas Park in
North Lawndale about six miles southwest of downtown.

The move comes after after some residents and Ald. Roberto Maldonado (26th) said
they didn't want Riot Fest to return, blaming the festival for disrupting park
activities and causing damage to the park that took months to repair.

Others had said they wanted the three-day fest to return to the Northwest Side
park, which shares a name with the neighborhood.

After the announced move, Mayor Rahm Emanuel warned Riot Fest organizers to make
sure they clean up their act -- or else.

"I don't think it's in their best interest to have a second park say we don't
want you in Chicago. So they've been put on notice to be a better citizen in
holding this festival because if you go 0 for 2 we don't have a three strike
rule in the city of Chicago," he said.

This year, RedEye is a media partner of Riot Fest ranked the best American
festival by USA Today.

___ (c)2015 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150522-1RC-Riot-Fest-offers-ticket-refunds-after-venue-change-20150522

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2015


                             514 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             March 25, 2014 Tuesday

PDP boss hopes Modi will deliver on his promises

BYLINE: By Naseer Ganai in Srinagar

LENGTH: 534  words


PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has questioned the secular credentials of various
political parties in the country, saying leaders like Nitish Kumar and the
father- son duo of Farooq and Omar Abdullah were part of the BJP- led NDA when
it suited their interests.

The PDP leader also insisted that there was a lot of politics going on regarding
the issue of communal riots, including the one that took place during Chief
Minister Narendra Modi's rule in Gujarat. She hoped that the BJP prime
ministerial candidate would follow the footsteps of former PM Atal Bihar
Vajpayee on the Kashmir issue.

" When it suits the likes of Farooq and Omar Abdullah, Nitish Kumar and others,
they join the NDA and enjoy power. And when they leave the NDA, they describe
the BJP as communal party. Does their alliance with any party determine what is
communal and what is secular? They talk about riots. Has anyone resigned after
the recent Muzaffarnagar riots or the 1984 anti- Sikh riots in Delhi? Why they
are selective even about communal riots?" Mehbooba said in an interview to M AIL
T ODAY . " Over the years riots have been taking place, but no chief minister
has resigned be it in Delhi, Gujarat or in Muzaffarnagar.

Even if the head of the state is not involved in the riots, he should have
courage to apologise to his people because he is there to protect them. Modi too
needs to apologise to his people for Gujarat riots," she added.

The Congress should not talk about riots as it failed to pass an anti- communal
violence bill in Parliament, the PDP leader added. She argued that the Congress
used the communal card to stop Modi whereas it was the UPA's dismal performance
which facilitated his rise.

" The Congress has launched a campaign to stop Modi from coming to the power.
But the fact is misgovernance, corruption, lawlessness of the UPA has
facilitated the rise of Modi," she said.

" Afzal Guru was at number 29 among the convicts who were on death row. The UPA
did not focus on Beant Singh's killers. It didn't touch Rajiv Gandhi killers
either. It played the communal card by hanging Guru to stop Modi and it has
failed miserably. The UPA thought it could stop Modi by hanging a Kashmiri
Muslim, but it didn't work. It only created further alienation in Jammu and
Kashmir," Mehbooba asserted.

The daughter of PDP patron Mufti Mohammad Sayeed has high expectations from
Modi.

" He ( Modi) has stated that he would pursue Vajpayee's policy on Kashmir. That
is a welcome sign. We need to wait and watch. But at the same time we must not
forget that when the BJP comes to power, it has courage to take certain bold and
unconventional decisions."

With some parties in the Valley drifting towards it, the BJP said it will
resolve the issues through humanity.

" On the external dimensions of the issue, BJP will never allow India's
territory to be bargained or compromised. On the internal dimensions, our
approach will be guided by Atal Behari Vajpayee's pronouncement that all issues
will be resolved within the dimension of ' insanyiat'," BJP leader Arun Jaitley
said.

He said his visits to the state have convinced him that the sense of
discrimination among the people of Jammu, Leh and Ladakh has to be addressed.
PTI

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             515 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                      November 12, 1999 Friday 2D EDITION

CU students may all pay for rioting Mandatory fee would cover costs of damage,
regent says

BYLINE: By Dave Curtin, Denver Post Higher Education Writer,

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-01

LENGTH: 735 words


A University of Colorado regent wants to charge all students  a mandatory riot
fee to pay for thousands of dollars in damage  from annual riots in Boulder.

Regent Jim Martin of Boulder, who floated the idea Thursday  at the regents'
monthly meeting, likened the riot fee to annual  student fees that typically
support student activities and clubs.  He said $ 100,000 should be raised to pay
for estimated damage from  a Halloween riot Oct. 30 in Boulder's University Hill
area.

Such a fee would cause a riot, student leaders said.

'Why don't you take the $ 100,000 out of the admissions  budget? They admitted
the students,' argued Tara Friedman, student  body president, adding that it is
unfair to penalize the  25,000-student body for the actions of perhaps 10
students on  Halloween.

Yet others said something needs to be done.

'Forget party school. We're turning into a riot school,' said  CU Regent Maureen
Ediger, a recent CU graduate. 'I don't want that  reputation. I don't think we
can afford a riot story to show up in  the newspapers every time there's a
football game or a holiday.'

It was difficult to identify the costumed Halloween revelers  as CU students on
Oct. 30, particularly since there were no  arrests.

Boulder experienced problems on Halloween last year, and  three nights of
rioting in May 1997. More recent was a melee at  Mile High Stadium on Sept. 4
during a football game with rival  Colorado State.

Martin plans to meet with student leaders to discuss how to  implement a riot
fee. Student fees are approved by the student  body.

Boulder students now pay $ 215 a semester in mandatory student  fees to support
an array of activities.

Martin held up a picture of a Boulder police officer who  suffered two skull
fractures at the hands of Halloween rioters and  said, 'This is the fourth time
in three years students took to the  streets to riot.'

He complained that there's been no resolution since the May  1997 riots.

'There ought to be monetary, if not other sanctions,' Martin  said. 'The
students ought to be held accountable. Maybe if there's  economic sanctions to
students on the Boulder campus, maybe a  light bulb will go on in their heads.
Where should this $ 100,000  come from? It shouldn't come from the taxpayers.'

Martin said CU students riot for the sake of rioting. He  quoted a CU junior in
a Boulder publication as saying, 'In the  '50s we had racism, in the '60s we had
Vietnam. In the '90s we  don't have anything to get angry about.'

Students identified as troublemakers are promptly ushered  through CU's student
judicial process, said Boulder Chancellor  Richard Byyny. Two students were
expelled and several were  suspended after the 1997 riots, he said.

But there were no arrests stemming from the Oct. 30 incident  and no arrests of
CU students at Mile High Stadium on Sept. 4.

'If we don't know who the person is, we can't act,' Byyny said.

'There were as many high school students as college students  (involved on Oct.
30) and some weren't students at all,' Byyny  said.

Said Regent Jerry Rutledge, 'Lots of people flock to Boulder  on Halloween. I
don't think we should assume they're CU students  unless we know they are.'

Recent riots and melees involving CU students have included:

Oct. 30 - Police tear-gas a crowd of 500 people, reportedly  students, in a
University Hill neighborhood. Some lit fires and  overturned two vans.

Sept. 4 - Police tear-gas and Mace students in the Colorado  State student
section during a melee at Mile High Stadium at the  close of a football game
between CU and CSU. Police report several  drunken brawls and heavy drinking.

Sept. 5, 1998 - Police arrest and eject 77 students from CU  and CSU for
drinking-related incidents during a game at Mile High  Stadium between the two
schools.

Oct. 31, 1998 - Police in riot gear break up a bonfire party  on University
Hill.

Oct. 31, 1997 - Six students are arrested after Boulder  police respond in riot
gear to an out-of-control Halloween party  on University Hill.

May 4, 1997 - A three-night string of disturbances results in  35 arrests,
including six people charged with felonies; injuries  to several police officers
and dozens of others; and hundreds of  thousands of dollars in property damage.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Regent Jim Martin of Boulder plans to meet with students
leaders to discuss how to implement a riot fee. Richard Byyny

                        Copyright 1999 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             516 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                      December 18, 2015 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Tencent completes its full acquisition of Riot Games

BYLINE: Jonathan Clifford

LENGTH: 252  words


In a recent announcement, American video game publisher and developer Riot Games
Inc. has revealed that bigwig Chinese Internet firm Tencent Holdings Ltd. has
completed the full acquisition of the company.

Tencent had acquired a majority stake in Riot Games -- the company behind
'League of Legends' real-time strategy video game video game -- in February
2011; and now the remaining equity of the developer has also been acquired by
the Chinese Internet company.

The financial details of Tencent's full acquisition of Riot Games have not been
officially disclosed. However, according to a report, Tencent owned nearly 93
percent of Riot Games' stakes before taking over the full ownership of the
company.

In a confirmation that Tencent has fully acquired Riot Games, the video game
developer has disclosed, in a recent post on its official website, a change to
its equity and employee rewards structure, to indicate that "our majority
investor, Tencent, recently purchased the remaining equity of Riot Games."

In an announcement of the company's full acquisition by Tencent, Riot Games said
in its post that there were incoming "Riot comp changes," and added: "As a
result of our continued growth and changing circumstances, we're shifting to a
new structure to recognize and reward Rioters' contributions."

Technology (http://uncovercalifornia.com/business/technology)United States
(http://uncovercalifornia.com/region/united-states)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             517 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                              July 1, 2011 Friday

India's Gujarat riots record 'destroyed'

BYLINE:  The Nation Monitoring

SECTION: Vol. XXV No. 143

LENGTH: 272  words


Official records relating to the 2002 riots in India's Gujarat state were
destroyed in line with regulations, the government tells a panel probing the
riots, reported BBC on Thursday.

Documents with records of telephone calls and the movements of officials during
the riots were destroyed in 2007, five years after their origin.  Officials say
this is standard practice and in line with civil service rules.

More than 1,000 people, mostly Muslims, died in the riots. The violence erupted
after 60 Hindus died in a train fire. The cause of the blaze was never clearly
established. Hindu groups allege the fire was started by Muslim protesters, but
an earlier inquiry said the blaze was an accident.

The Supreme Court set up a panel to investigate the riots in 2008, after
allegations that the Gujarat government was doing little to bring those
responsible to justice.

Government lawyer SB Vakil told the Nanavati panel probing the riots that some
records relating to the riots had been destroyed according to the rules. "As per
general government rules, the telephone call records, vehicle logbook and the
officers' movement diary are destroyed after a certain period," Vakil was quoted
as saying by the Press Trust of India news agency.

In April a senior police officer alleged in a sworn statement to India's Supreme
Court that Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi deliberately allowed anti-Muslim
riots in the state.

Modi has always denied any wrongdoing. The Gujarat government has responded to
the allegations by saying they have already testified before a special panel
investigating the riots and will wait for the court's verdict.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2011 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             518 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    November 17, 2001 Saturday Final Edition

Inmates can break out, guards claim: They learn ropes at Drumheller on
construction jobs

SOURCE: Calgary Herald; Southam Newspapers

BYLINE: Suzanne Wilton, Chris Varcoe and Grant Robertson

SECTION: Alberta; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: Drumheller

Inmates at Drumheller's penitentiary have intimate knowledge of its security,
allowing them to break out of cells during riots, according to a confidential
report by the guards' union.

"The inmates are regularly called upon to work on the construction, renovation
and the maintenance of the safety and security infrastructures within the
prison," says a copy of the report obtained by the Herald in the wake of a
deadly riot at the federal institution this week.

"They are thus perfectly familiar with all the (security) mechanisms in place
and are accordingly able to side-step them or disable them during a riot," the
document says.

The 10-page investigation by the union details the chain of events surrounding
another riot at the penitentiary in May, which caused more than $1 million
damage to the institution in Drumheller, about 140 kilometres northeast of
Calgary.

Prison officials, however, said concerns raised since the last riot have all
been addressed.

"I don't see any common ties to these events," said assistant warden Bob Lytle.

But several issues raised in the report -- such as the safety of corrections
officers and the systematic breaching of security by inmates -- are again in
question after the bloody uprising Monday night.

Inmates rioted for more than five hours, resulting in the death of one prisoner
and the hospitalization of another.

The killing of 21-year-old Jarett Jabbs, allegedly stabbed and beaten to death
by other prisoners, is being investigated as a homicide, RCMP said Friday.

Such problems have run deep at the troubled institution.

Since 1997, Alberta's largest medium-security prison has been plagued by three
major riots, inmate deaths and a long list of escapes from the adjacent
minimum-security annex.

The report says the prison was chronically understaffed leading up to May's riot
, including the absence of senior managers who did not work nights.

Particular criticism is aimed at the prison's work program, which allows inmates
to work at construction jobs that reveal weaknesses in the prison's
infrastructure.

The May 12 riot was instigated by the assault of two guards during a drug
seizure three days earlier, which caused tension at the prison to rise.

The guards' report describes how inmates were able to break out of their cells
during the riot by smashing through cinderblock walls, breaking through cell
doors and ripping off railings for use as demolition instruments.

Lytle acknowledged that the prison was understaffed before the riot, but said
several concerns raised in the report were addressed by an internal inquiry done
in the weeks following the riot.

Four guards, rather than two, have been stationed in each of the prison's four
units, while managers are now required to work night and weekend shifts, Lytle
said.

Despite increased security, the extent of the damage done during Monday night's
riot is expected to exceed the May uprising. Preliminary damage estimates are
$800,000.

A move to reinforce cinderblock walls with steel panels to prevent cell breaks
had only been completed on three of the four units when Monday night's riot
began.

The report has outlined problems with "cascading," a process in the prison
system where violent, maximum security inmates are quickly moved to lower
classifications as they are rehabilitated.

"A growing number of inmates considered as dangerous and who should be
incarcerated in maximum-security institutions end up more and more often in
medium-security prisons such as Drumheller," the guards' report says.

The report also singles out overcrowding as a problem at the prison.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Crime

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             519 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            April 2, 1997, Wednesday

Jail blocks set on fire as 300 riot

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: DONEMAN P / ALDRED D

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words


UP TO 300 prisoners burned several buildings at the new $59 million Woodford
prison last night during a riot over complaints of poor quality food.

Emergency Services and prison authorities took almost four hours to bring the
riot under control, with two cell blocks burning and prisoners running loose in
the jail's compound.

Police fired several warning shots in an attempt to bring the riot under control
while armed prison guards with attack dogs battled with the inmates.

More than a third of the new jail, west of Caboolture, was damaged.

Brisbane prison officers from the tactical response group, dog squad and
transport and escort groups were rushed to Woodford as reinforcements around 7pm
last night.

High and medium-security prisoners destroyed windows and furniture, and some
prisoners set fire to their cells.

Officers said the riot started in N Block, which housed the "baddest of the
bad".

Up to 50 inmates started the riot, but this soon escalated as other inmates
joined in, deliberately setting off sprinkler systems and destroying their
cells.

Prison authorities could not confirm officers' claims that at least one staff
member had been taken hostage and that several inmates may have escaped.

Final head counts had not been completed late last night.

A Queensland Corrective Services Commission spokesman said only one inmate
required medical attention. The spokesman did not believe any inmates had tried
to break out.

Woodford prison officers had held a stop-work meeting shortly before the riot
over safety issues and staff numbers.

One officer said staff at one stage had refused to receive a prison escort
transporting prisoners they described as "trouble-makers".

Prisoners were locked down in their cells around 9pm last night as emergency
services and prison officials secured the jail complex.

Prisons Minister Russell Cooper last night demanded police and Corrective
Services immediately launch a full investigation into the riot.

He said he was determined to get to the bottom of the riot.

"I'll be leaving no stone unturned to find the answers to the reasons for the
riot," he said. "It is disgraceful that a new, modern facility like this should
be desecrated."

Prison union officials had raised fears of a prison riot at Woodford to The
Courier-Mail two weeks ago, saying staff were on alert after tension among
inmates increased over the QCSC's decision to ban smoking within the jail.

The QCSC backed away from the ban, allowing inmates to smoke in designated
areas.

At the jail's opening last month, QCSC director-general Keith Hamburger said a
Corrective Services Unit investigation could not substantiate the riot rumours.

It was claimed that Sir David Longland and Borallon prisoners were offering to
clear the drug debts of other prisoners if they staged a riot at the end of
March when they transferred to Woodford.

Officers said about 120 inmates, including five high-security prisoners, were
running loose in the jail compound about an hour before the riot was contained.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             520 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            November 29, 2013 Friday

UP govt reply in Apex Court contradicts Akhilesh claims

BYLINE: Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui & Ashish Tripathi

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 584 words


LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has told the Supreme Court that there is
no parallel between Muzaffarnagar and Gujarat riots. The government has also
denied that the communal riots were linked to the three murders in Kawal town of
Muzaffarnagar. This, however, contradicts the repeated claims of Chief Minister
Akhilesh Yadav that a fake video clip circulated by BJP MLAs had triggered the
clashes.

The government's reply came in response to a PIL filed by activist Nutan Thakur,
who sought CBI probe into the riots by drawing parallels to the sequence of
events with 2002 Gujarat riots.

The affidavit has been filed by home secretary Kamal Saxena. UP is averse to CBI
probe into Muzaffarnagar riots.

The petitioner had alleged that government's failure to check events after
murder of youths escalated tension and eventually led to riots. Though the
government in its reply admitted that post-murder events took place, it said the
petitioner's perception was exaggerated.

The volte-face by the government lends credence to the allegations that the
riots -- in which 62 persons were killed and over 60,000 displaced -- were a
"fixed match" between the BJP and the SP government. The affidavit will also
help BJP MLA Sangeet Som to counter the criminal proceedings on the basis of
which National Security Act was slapped on him for uploading a fake video clip
of the Kawal murders itself.

The affidavit states: "The averments regarding escalation of tension with the
three deaths on 27.8.2013, in the light of certain events having allegedly taken
place earlier is the petitioner's own perception which do not warrant any
response." Nutan Thakur had mentioned in the petition that a number of incidents
had taken place before the riots broke out on September 7, 2013. She had
contested that despite a common link to all these incidents, the government
failed to initiate action strong enough to avert the riots.

In sharp contrast to the affidavit, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had not only
admitted that Kawal murders led to the riots but also warned those hatching a
conspiracy to destabilise the SP government by instigating communal violence.
"What happened in Muzaffarnagar is a well-thought out strategy," Akhilesh had
said in the state assembly on September 19, 2013. "One political party has tried
to draw political mileage. They used social media to trigger a riot," he had
alleged.

BJP MLA Sangeet Som has been charged with circulating a fake video online that
claimed to show the lynching of two Hindu Jat boys by a group of Muslims; it was
actually a video from Pakistan that was two years old, the CM had stated.

In his first post-riot visit to Muzaffarnagar on September 15, Akhilesh Yadav
had hit out at those who uploaded the fake video. He said, "Spreading such false
hatred inflicting videos was anti-national. Will have to find them and prosecute
them." In fact, the state government had repeatedly claimed that action was
initiated against Sangeet Som for spreading hatred by uploading a fake video and
claiming it to be the footage of the murder of two Hindu youths in Kawal on
August 27.

Regarding Thakur's contention that several sectarian and communal clashes have
occurred in UP since SP came to power, the affidavit states "UP, being one of
the largest stares of the country, has witnessed several events related to law
and order issues" and they were "inevitably and promptly dealt with". It further
states that the petitioner has not provided details of the action taken in
clashes.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             521 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                                 March 28, 2003

INMATES TO SUE OVER RIOT 'TRAUMA'

SECTION: News; Other; Prisons; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 459 words


Thirty-two inmates caught up in the Lincoln Prison riot last October have
expressed their intention to make the claim.  The men involved were being held
in the vulnerable prisoners' unit when more than 150 inmates started a riot at
the jail in Greetwell Road, Lincoln.

The 20 prison officers on duty had retreated to the prison gates within 30
minutes, leaving the men locked in their cells for up to two hours.

Rioting inmates started several fires, raided the prison pharmacy and assaulted
a prison officer.

The riot lasted about eight hours and caused damage estimated at more than GBP 2
million to the prison's A, B and C wings.

A spokesman for the Home Office said: "We can confirm that following last
October's riot a number of prisoners have expressed their intention to take
legal action against the prison service.

"We cannot comment further and will now be waiting to hear from the inmates'
legal representatives." Sills & Betteridge solicitors, of Silver Street,
Lincoln, are handling the case.

A spokesman for the firm said she was unable to comment on the case as it was at
an "early stage". She declined to say whether the firm's clients would be
applying for legal aid.

Juliet Lyon, director of the trust, said: "I think one of the questions that
must be asked over this riot and claim is how a settled prison like Lincoln
ended up with a riot and why the most vulnerable prisoners ended up being in
fear of their lives." Colin Moses, chairman of the Prison Officers' Association,
said yesterday that people needed to remember what officers had gone through
during the riot.

"While everyone has human rights, it must be remembered that this was a riotous
situation where two prison officers were almost taken hostage by inmates," he
said.

The claim by the Lincoln prisoners comes after similar action by inmates who
claimed for "stress and trauma" that they suffered during the Strangeways prison
riot in 1990.

Seven prisoners received an average of GBP 7,000 from the Prison Service after
claiming that they had endured sleepless nights and personality changes.

It was announced in February that a three-month investigation by the Prison
Service into the riot would not be made public.

Prisoner Lee Blake (37) was found dead in his cell the day after the riot. He
had taken a drugs overdose.

Thirty-one other prisoners were injured during the riots.

Earlier this month, Lincoln Prison was named the most overcrowded in Britain by
the Prison Reform Trust.

What do you think? Write to Your View at the Lincolnshire Echo, Brayford Wharf
East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT.

Alternatively, email yourview@lincolnshireecho.co.uk AFTERMATH: The scene of
devastation after last year's riot and (above) the Echo's front page report.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2003 Lincolnshire Echo


                             522 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 3, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

BRITISH RIOTS 'SHARP WARNING'

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words


To the Editor:

The July 23 article by John Herbers, ''U.S. and British Riots: Experts See Few
Parallels,'' may serve to cheer us temporarily, but that unjustifiably
optimistic picture will leave us with our mouths agape when the first rocks and
bottles are hurled and Molotov cocktails and gunshots follow.

Neither Lloyd Cutler nor Cyrus Vance nor almost any public figure wants to be
quoted predicting riots. It is widely regarded as an unwise thing to do because
it can encourage racial discord, give encouragement to firebrands and be
politically damaging. For example, a recent passing remark by Governor Carey
concerning riots resulted in an embarrassing news story.

Yet in private conversations with urban police chiefs, criminal justice
personnel, black leaders and others during the last year and a half, as I have
been pursuing the issue of civil disorders, I have heard again and again the
same conclusions: Yes, we are heading for urban riots. No, we don't know exactly
when. Yes, our police forces are unprepared to deal with riots. No, I won't talk
publicly about this or I may get myself in political hot water.

Many police officials, who are usually restrained, careful and lowkey in their
predictions, agree that they are sitting on powder kegs. Lately, some are even
saying that the summer of 1982 is the period of which they are really afraid,
when the inner cities will begin to feel the brunt of government cutbacks.

However, riots don't happen by logic or mechanical rules. The poorest
communities don't necessarily explode first, nor do riots necessarily occur when
the economy is at the lowest ebb. It is much more random than that.

But if there are the right set of circumstances and a spark, then riots can
surely happen. Today, in any one of scores of U.S. cities, if the police
mistakenly shoot an unarmed teen-ager on a 93-degree night, the result could be
a riot, which could start a chain reaction in other cities on other nights. To
deny that this could happen today, tomorrow or next year is to be a Pollyanna.

We seriously delude ourselves if we deny that the recent English riots are a
sharp warning for the U.S. We must not abandon our commitment to applying
government and private resources to redeveloping our inner cities while at the
same time continuing our efforts to reform and improve our local police
departments. It is for the very reason that the U.S. has been engaged in urban
redevelopment and police reform throughout the 1970's that we have largely been
able to avoid civil disorders.
JOHN J. KENNEDY, Acting Chairperson Department of Criminal Justice, Jersey City
State College, Jersey City, July 23, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                             523 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           October 2, 2013 Wednesday

Communal Violence Bill the need of the hour: Mander

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 437 words


HYDERABAD: Communal parties and 'secular opportunists' are trying to make
Muslims politically irrelevant, social worker and human rights activist Harsh
Mander said here on Tuesday. Efforts are also being made by these elements to
block the Communal Violence Bill (CVB) from being passed in Parliament, he said.

Citing the recent Muzaffarnagar riots as an example, Mander, who led a
fact-finding team to the affected areas, said all communal riots were bound by
"the common thread of manufacturing hate, organising communal machinery and
complicity of the government."

Addressing a gathering of activists and media at Mahboob Hussain Jigar Hall, he
said: "Muzaffarnagar riots saw all these elements. No communal riot will go on
for more than a few hours unless the government wants it to. From witness'
accounts we have understood that police did liAttle to control the riots."

He added that while engineering the riots, political parties including the BJP
had hoped that Hindus would rally behind it, while the Samajwadi Party believed
Muslims would cling on to it. "The government should have courage to pass
Communal Violence Bill with legally binding standards. The government-drafted
bill sought more powers for itself in the face of communal riots. If this
happens minorities will get crushed," Mander said. He said the government
accountability should be increased, instead of more powers. Command
responsibility - meaning origin of orders - should be included in the bill and
the government should provide rescue, relief and rehabilitation to victims. He
noted that the nature of communal riots had changed after the Gujarat riots in
2002. While killings have been lesser in number, there has been a substantial
increase in displacement of minorities.

Lashing out at the BJP's minority appeasement rhetoric, Mander said, "If there
had been minority appeasement, Muslims would've been better than other
communities. Of the 50,000 displaced, between 600 and 700 were dalits living in
Muslim majority neighbourhoods. Around five lakh were displaced in Assam. Such
riots push out Muslims where they are a minority in villages. Many of them don't
return and their properties are taken away or destroyed."

TDP politburo member Zahid Ali Khan said that he would resign from the party if
party leader N Chandrababu Naidu aligns with the BJP. "The fist resignation he
will receive will be from me. He should understand that Muslims will not support
him if there is a TDP-BJP alliance. Alliance with BJP is supporting Narendra
Modi who is now PM candidate. I am against Modi for that job," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             524 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Inner city businesses fear repeat of 1980s insurance nightmare

BYLINE: ANNABLACKABY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 840 words


Traders in riot-hit parts of Birmingham are waking up to an "insurance hangover"
with fears higher premiums may prevent many taking out cover for their stock.

As the West Midlands returns to a sense of normality following violent scenes
across the region, shopkeepers have moved on from clean-up operations to
assessing the longterm cost of the riots to their businesses. Handsworth's Soho
Road was among the many areas which saw looting and vandalism during the
disturbances - but even those shops not touched by the violence still expect to
be left out of pocket through higher insurance costs.

It's a familiar scenario for many shopkeepers in Handsworth, who remember the
riots of the early 1980s which resulted in insurance firms refusing to cover
stores' stock in the area.

Dipak Patel, chairman of Handsworth Traders Association and owner of Uropa
Jewellers, said: "We have had an insurance hangover since the riots of the early
1980s.

"For many of us, insurers would not provide any cover for Soho Road or
Handsworth.

"We were raided in the '84 riots and we traded for 12 years without any contents
insurance.

When we were looted then we had insurance cover.

"But a couple of days after the riot, we had a call from our insurers saying
they would cover our claim but after seven days they would close our policy."

Mr Patel said insurers eventually started to offer cover for goods about a
decade and a half after the 1980s riots - albeit at a much higher cost.

There are now fears last week's riots could send those premiums even higher.

"They will definitely go up," said Mr Patel. "Over the last 10 years insurers
have been willing to come back in, but with a high premium for those living and
trading in Handsworth.

We will get insurance but it will be very expensive.

"But certainly corner shops and grocers just won't think it's worth insuring
themselves."

In the immediate aftermath of the riots, the city launched a major cleanup
operation, supported by members of the public volunteering their services.

Attention is now turning to how best to support businesses in areas which saw
widespread ransacking and violence.

Birmingham City Council has said that shops will be able to install shutters
immediately without receiving planning permission first from the city council.

Deputy council leader Paul Tilsley said all businesses would be able to put in
the security measures as long as standards set out in the local authority's shop
fronts design guide were followed.

They must then apply for planning permission, which the council will guarantee
to support.

The scheme cuts out a typical three to fourmonth delay between applying for and
receiving planning permission.

Businesses affected by the riots are also being urged to apply for compensation
from the Government's pounds 20 million High Street Support Scheme.

The council is also considering the possibility of using Government money to
grant rate relief to shops and other businesses forced into temporary closure by
the riots.

Coun Tilsley added: "It seems likely that the fund can be used to finance
measures that will get business trading again and meet short-term costs.

"Councils will distribute the money and could use it to reduce business rates,
finance building repairs and encourage customers back to the affected areas."

Meanwhile, some banks are offering support for small businesses directly
affected by the riots.

RBS and NatWest will provide interest-free loans of up to pounds 25,000 to small
business customers directly impacted by the riots in Birmingham & West Bromwich
for up to six months.

Paul Brookes, director of business banking for Birmingham, said: "We want to do
everything we can for businesses affected by the riots.

"These loans will help firms waiting for insurance payments or needing urgent
repairs to open for business as soon as possible."

Lack of footfall as nervous shoppers and diners stay at home is another issue
for shops and restaurants, which are already suffering from consumers reining in
their spending.

Most traders report business is getting back to normal - but some areas are
still not quite at the levels they saw before the disturbances.

Mr Patel said Handsworth would take a while to get the number of shoppers up to
levels seen before the trouble.

"One of the major issues we face is getting people from outside areas to come to
the Soho Road, as a lot of people will be put off.

"It's better now, but it's about 70 per cent of what it should be. This will
take some time before people get their confidence back - but certainly cash
flows are going to be very tight."

In the Jewellery Quarter, high-class Indian restaurant Lasan last week described
how diners were cancelling their bookings in droves in the immediate aftermath
of the riots.

But customer levels are now returning to normal, Lasan chef director Aktar Islam
said.

"Thankfully this week's looking a bit better," he said.

"Towards the back end of the week things started to pick up. People still remain
wary but

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Dipak Patel, chairman of Handsworth Traders Association A bank was
raided in the recent riots in Handsworth, left. There are now fears the area
could see insurance premiums rocket. In the 1980s, riots (above) saw insurers
refuse to offer cover at all

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: bp


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             525 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Inner city businesses fear repeat of 1980s insurance nightmare

BYLINE: ANNABLACKABY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 840 words


Traders in riot-hit parts of Birmingham are waking up to an "insurance hangover"
with fears higher premiums may prevent many taking out cover for their stock.

As the West Midlands returns to a sense of normality following violent scenes
across the region, shopkeepers have moved on from clean-up operations to
assessing the longterm cost of the riots to their businesses. Handsworth's Soho
Road was among the many areas which saw looting and vandalism during the
disturbances - but even those shops not touched by the violence still expect to
be left out of pocket through higher insurance costs.

It's a familiar scenario for many shopkeepers in Handsworth, who remember the
riots of the early 1980s which resulted in insurance firms refusing to cover
stores' stock in the area.

Dipak Patel, chairman of Handsworth Traders Association and owner of Uropa
Jewellers, said: "We have had an insurance hangover since the riots of the early
1980s.

"For many of us, insurers would not provide any cover for Soho Road or
Handsworth.

"We were raided in the '84 riots and we traded for 12 years without any contents
insurance.

When we were looted then we had insurance cover.

"But a couple of days after the riot, we had a call from our insurers saying
they would cover our claim but after seven days they would close our policy."

Mr Patel said insurers eventually started to offer cover for goods about a
decade and a half after the 1980s riots - albeit at a much higher cost.

There are now fears last week's riots could send those premiums even higher.

"They will definitely go up," said Mr Patel. "Over the last 10 years insurers
have been willing to come back in, but with a high premium for those living and
trading in Handsworth.

We will get insurance but it will be very expensive.

"But certainly corner shops and grocers just won't think it's worth insuring
themselves."

In the immediate aftermath of the riots, the city launched a major cleanup
operation, supported by members of the public volunteering their services.

Attention is now turning to how best to support businesses in areas which saw
widespread ransacking and violence.

Birmingham City Council has said that shops will be able to install shutters
immediately without receiving planning permission first from the city council.

Deputy council leader Paul Tilsley said all businesses would be able to put in
the security measures as long as standards set out in the local authority's shop
fronts design guide were followed.

They must then apply for planning permission, which the council will guarantee
to support.

The scheme cuts out a typical three to fourmonth delay between applying for and
receiving planning permission.

Businesses affected by the riots are also being urged to apply for compensation
from the Government's pounds 20 million High Street Support Scheme.

The council is also considering the possibility of using Government money to
grant rate relief to shops and other businesses forced into temporary closure by
the riots.

Coun Tilsley added: "It seems likely that the fund can be used to finance
measures that will get business trading again and meet short-term costs.

"Councils will distribute the money and could use it to reduce business rates,
finance building repairs and encourage customers back to the affected areas."

Meanwhile, some banks are offering support for small businesses directly
affected by the riots.

RBS and NatWest will provide interest-free loans of up to pounds 25,000 to small
business customers directly impacted by the riots in Birmingham & West Bromwich
for up to six months.

Paul Brookes, director of business banking for Birmingham, said: "We want to do
everything we can for businesses affected by the riots.

"These loans will help firms waiting for insurance payments or needing urgent
repairs to open for business as soon as possible."

Lack of footfall as nervous shoppers and diners stay at home is another issue
for shops and restaurants, which are already suffering from consumers reining in
their spending.

Most traders report business is getting back to normal - but some areas are
still not quite at the levels they saw before the disturbances.

Mr Patel said Handsworth would take a while to get the number of shoppers up to
levels seen before the trouble.

"One of the major issues we face is getting people from outside areas to come to
the Soho Road, as a lot of people will be put off.

"It's better now, but it's about 70 per cent of what it should be. This will
take some time before people get their confidence back - but certainly cash
flows are going to be very tight."

In the Jewellery Quarter, high-class Indian restaurant Lasan last week described
how diners were cancelling their bookings in droves in the immediate aftermath
of the riots.

But customer levels are now returning to normal, Lasan chef director Aktar Islam
said.

"Thankfully this week's looking a bit better," he said.

"Towards the back end of the week things started to pick up. People still remain
wary but

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Dipak Patel, chairman of Handsworth Traders Association A bank was
raided in the recent riots in Handsworth, left. There are now fears the area
could see insurance premiums rocket. In the 1980s, riots (above) saw insurers
refuse to offer cover at all

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: bp


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             526 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                        April 6, 2014 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

Mulayam visits Muzaffarnagar, attacks Modi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 217  words


Muzaffarnagar, Apr 6 (IBNS):  Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav
on Sunday visited  Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh where he attacked Bharatiya
Janata Party (BJP)'s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi and said he did
nothing for the riots victims in his Gujarat.

Muzaffarnagar witnessed riots last year which left  60 people dead and close to
40,000 homeless.         "The riots which took place here were unfortunate,"
Yadav said while addressing a rally here.         "The Uttar Pradesh government
had helped and provided assistance to the victims... In this country, such huge
amount was never given as relief to riot victims in the country before," he
said.         Slamming Narendra Modi over the 2002 riots in Gujarat, Yadav said:
" The people of India are now doing Modi Modi. How many lives did Modi take?
The Gujarat government did not even give a single rupee to riot victims."
This was Yadav's first visit to  Muzaffarnagar since riots hit the area last
year.         The infamous Gujarat riots of 2002 left hundreds of Muslims dead,
injured and tortured and came as a blot in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule
in the state.         The riots followed an incident of train burning in Godhra
in which Hindus returning from Ayodhya were killed by a Muslim mob.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2014 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             527 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1992, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

POP VIEW;
Rap After the Riot: Smoldering Rage And No Apologies

BYLINE: By Jon Pareles

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1466 words


Ice Cube does some gloating on his new album, "The Predator." "Anything you
wanted to know about the riot was in the records before the riot," he says in an
interview-style interlude. "All you had to do was go to the Ice Cube library and
pick a record."

He's right: "Death Certificate," released on Halloween in 1991, not only
articulated the rage surrounding the beating of Rodney King, but showed exactly
where the flashpoint would be in the April riots in Los Angeles. The album
included "Black Korea," which revealed the deep resentment between Korean
shopkeepers (whom Ice Cube, in one ignorant flourish, described as
"chop-suey-eatin' ") and blacks, who felt they were being treated more like
potential criminals than customers; when the riots came, Korean businesses
became targets.

The album was vengeful and divisive, airing deep-seated prejudices and treating
ethnic groups as if they were warring gangs that could never share turf. But it
was also prophetic, which may be one reason "The Predator" shot to No. 1 on
Billboard's album chart upon release at the end of November. In the wake of the
riot, people had been waiting for rap's next bulletin from the front.

Before South-Central Los Angeles went up in a billion dollars' worth of flames,
the only voices from the area that most Americans had heard were the swaggering
storytellers of gangster rap. Taking violence for granted, flaunting ugly
attitudes toward women and homosexuals, savoring gory details, gangster rappers
weren't documentarians or responsible spokesmen; they were pulp auteurs,
exploiting America's appetite for violent entertainment while dropping enough
local details or "reality" to sound credible.

When Los Angeles burned, the reality dwarfed gangster rap's tales of drive-by
shootings and petty but deadly feuds. Yet amid the violence, the rappers
suddenly seemed like experts. And as the immediacy of the riots faded, rappers
are again the voices most likely to be heard outside the ghetto. They are not
diplomatic or conciliatory with the outside world; they have little to say about
the riot victims or about rebuilding burned-out areas. That's for politicians
and community leaders to take care of. Rappers talk about how they feel.

Hip-hop is by far the most topical zone of popular music, so it was inevitable
that the riots would make their way into rap's fall releases. For the most part,
Los Angeles rappers have preferred to stay with their usual postures and
material, with increasingly redundant tales of crime, sex and battling machismo.
Although explicit post-riot raps are greatly outnumbered by more typical
gangster material, they have been emerging on new recordings over the last
month. They suggest that the acquittal of the police officers who beat Rodney
King has left enduring anger and that racial and ethnic polarization has only
increased.

There are no apologies, just a few second thoughts. On recent releases, gangster
rappers like Ice Cube vent rage and vow retribution, while noting with approval
the post-riot truce between the two most entrenched Los Angeles gangs, the Crips
and the Bloods. More politically inclined rappers, like Paris (from Oakland,
Calif.), ricochet between fantasizing about terrorism and trying to draw broader
lessons from the carnage.

The usually outspoken Public Enemy (from New York) plays defense. In "Tie Goes
to the Runner" on the new album "Greatest Misses," Chuck D says he's "not
suprised at all about the riots," but his only word about the situation is to
insist that raps like "Black Korea" didn't create the problems: "This was
predicted, not self-inflicted/ By the rap out of the 'hood that kicked it good."
Sound bites from news coverage of the riots also appear as signs of authenticity
on efforts like "Whut? Thee Album" by Redman, a performer from Newark who starts
the album by placing himself in a "psycho" ward, talking out his sociopathic
fantasies. The album includes "News Break," in which a fictitious interviewer
asks Redman about reaction to the riots. "Yeah, they still mad," he says, and
threatens the interviewer.

As with the rest of hip-hop, pluralism reigns. But the sentiment they share is
that it took an all-out insurrection to get the attention of a white power
structure.

Ice Cube, the best-known voice of South-Central, is involved not just on "The
Predator" but on a forthcoming album by a rapper called Kam, due in February,
and on an all-star post-riot single called "Get the Fist," which Mercury Records
released but made little effort to promote. Sales of the single, a sequence of
snippets by Ice Cube, Yo-Yo, Cypress Hill, Kam and others, benefit the
Brotherhood Movement, which was formed in the aftermath of the 1965 Watts riots
and is currently working to rebuild South-Central. But it's obvious why Mercury
didn't try to turn it into another "We Are the World"; "Get the Fist" is
probably the most belligerent charity single ever made.

It starts with on-the-spot defiance -- "I'm black and I'm proud to be lootin' in
your face" -- and moves on to calls for black unity against the police and
whites: "Not black on black/ The other color gets beat." "Get the Fist" also
includes part of Ice Cube's riot commentary from "The Predator," "We Had to Tear
This -- Up." In the complete song, between news bulletins about the verdict and
the riots, Ice Cube raps about looting ("Now I got a laptop computer") and
fantasizes about killing the policemen who beat Mr. King and the jury members
who acquitted them. His conclusion is that the riots were necessary for blacks
"to get some respect."

Kam's single "Peace Treaty," due in January, praises the gang truce but starts
out discussing the riots: "It wasn't just the blacks, everybody was looting and
had each other's backs. . . . We all had a hand in the cookie jar and took it
far enough to make a statement."

Paris echoes that sentiment on his second album, "Sleeping With the Enemy":
"Don't be tellin' me to get the nonviolent spirit/ When I'm violent is the only
time you devils hear it." Those lines are part of "Bush Killa," Paris's vision
of assassinating the President, a calculated provocation to draw attention to
what he sees as genocide against American blacks ("I hope he thinks of how he
done us when he's laid to waste/ From guns given to my people for my own kind").

Talking about the riots themselves, in a simulated telephone conversation that
opens "Long Hot Summer," Paris and a friend dismiss those who are looting
sneaker stores as "tired" and worries that in the aftermath of the riots, blacks
will benefit as little as they did after the Watts riots. "If we don't think
about things that we need to do for ourselves," he says, "this is just going to
happen again and again and again and again." But in the rap that follows, he
plays a gun-toting guerrilla stalking cops, with a chorus of "rat-a-tat-tat from
my gat."

In cities where pistols are used to settle schoolyard arguments, it's pointless
to wish for gun control in rap lyrics. And while no one should take such songs
literally, they do reflect a pathology born of all-American myths and of
smoldering frustrations. Weaned on the image of the frontier gunslinger who can
single-handedly clean up a town, or the Rambo who can refight and win the
Vietnam War without a shirt, rappers aren't the only ones who long for decisive
action backed by armed force.

Rappers have all sorts of motives, ethical and unethical, to remind the outside
world about their frustration, and in the commercial realm of popular culture,
no motives are entirely unmixed. A rapper can identify with his or her
community, hoping to shock listeners into paying attention to real troubles, and
simultaneously realize that contention and notoriety and sensationalism will
publicize and sell recordings. For rappers who portray their characters as
gunslingers and guerrillas, there's also a large component of machismo, the
determination to convince the archetypal street-level listener that the
performer is as "hard" as the competition.

Post-riot raps don't offer practical solutions to urban unemployment, declining
education, drugs and crime, any more than governmental bodies have. Instead,
they shout and snarl about an escalating desperation that makes all sides seek
scapegoats, raising friction and shutting off the possibility of dialogue.

Amid the gunplay and vengeance fantasies, the raps make one thing clear. While
April's flames may have been quenched, the hostility that ignited them has not
gone away. "I do want the white community to understand our community more," Ice
Cube says on "The Predator." "I've given so many warnings on what's gonna happen
if we don't get these things straight in our lives." His conclusion: "Armageddon
is near."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paris on a rooftop in Oakland, Calif. -- Fantasizing about
terrorism while trying to draw broader lessons. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times);
Ice Cube -- His "Predator" is the latest bulletin from the front. (Darcy
Padilla)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company


                             528 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Today's Zaman (Turkey)

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Police still can't recall who shot 14-year-old with tear gas canister

LENGTH: 590  words


Police officers testifying in an investigation into the shooting of 14-year-old
Berkin Elvan with a tear gas canister during last summer's Gezi Park protests
couldn't remember where they were or what they were doing on the day of the
incident, the Radikal daily reported on Monday.

According to Radikal, each of the seven police officers that testified on Feb. 6
claimed either to have not used a riot gun on the day of the incident or to not
know who used the riot gun that injured Berkin.

The statements resembled those of another group of seven police officers who
gave testimony on the incident in January.

The daily also reported that one of the officers said he didn't remember the
dates or locations of his postings during the Gezi protests.

Berkin was on his way to buy bread on the evening of June 16 when he was hit at
close range with a tear gas canister fired by riot police in Istanbul's
Okmeydani neighborhood, Human Rights Watch reported in June. Berkin has been in
intensive care unit at Istanbul's Okmeydani Hospital for over 268 days. In a
Sunday press release, Elvan family's lawyer said that Berkin weights 16
kilograms and his body's resistance and brain functions are significantly
compromised.

Radikal reported that the police officer Ismail Aydin has claimed that his team
fired no tear gas canisters that day, adding that he did not know who used the
riot gun.

Police officers Cengizhan Kocabas, Uluhan Ulu and Deniz Ulutas said that they
hadn't used riot guns that day because they are not certified to do so. They
also said that, due to the long duration of the protest movement, they were
unable to remember the dates and locations of their postings.

Another police officer, Deniz Arslan, said that though he was licensed to use
riot guns, he was not working on the day Berkin was injured. He learned about
the incident from media outlets, he said. Police officer Ali Keles, who also has
a license for riot guns, testified that he did not fire one on June 16 and that
other officers also licensed to use the rifle were on duty at Okmeydani that
day.

"I do not remember who used it [the riot gun]. I didn't use it. If the riot
police records are checked, we can see who the rifle was registered to that day,
and who used it," Keles added.

Sefa Doyranli, head of the riot-control team posted to the area of the incident,
said he was in Okmeydani on the day the incident took place, but stressed that
he didn't fire the riot gun. "I don't remember who on our team was given a riot
gun," he added.

The daily also reported that the seven police officers who testified on Jan. 30
also claimed to not remember what happened on the day of the incident, or said
they weren't there.

Meanwhile, the Hurriyet daily reported that President Abdullah Gul called
Berkin's father Sami Elvan on Monday and wished the teenager a speedy recovery.
Gul also asked Sami Elvan about the 14-year-old's current condition.

"I feel deeply sorry about what happened. I share your pain. I am closely
following Berkin's situation. Let me know if you need anything," Gul said.

According to Hurriyet, Berkin's father asked Gul to stop police from using force
against people gathering in front of the hospital. Gul said he would call
Istanbul Governor Huseyin Avni Mutlu and ask him to handle the issue more
sensitively.

Earlier in January, riot police detained 10 protesters who had gathered on
Istanbul's Istiklal Street to demand justice for Berkin. A group of 50
protesters had gathered on Istiklal Street to stage a march in support of the
injured teenager.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Today's Zaman
                              All Rights Reserved


                             529 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Today's Zaman (Turkey)

                             March 10, 2014 Monday

Police still can't recall who shot 14-year-old with tear gas canister

LENGTH: 590  words


Police officers testifying in an investigation into the shooting of 14-year-old
Berkin Elvan with a tear gas canister during last summer's Gezi Park protests
couldn't remember where they were or what they were doing on the day of the
incident, the Radikal daily reported on Monday.

According to Radikal, each of the seven police officers that testified on Feb. 6
claimed either to have not used a riot gun on the day of the incident or to not
know who used the riot gun that injured Berkin.

The statements resembled those of another group of seven police officers who
gave testimony on the incident in January.

The daily also reported that one of the officers said he didn't remember the
dates or locations of his postings during the Gezi protests.

Berkin was on his way to buy bread on the evening of June 16 when he was hit at
close range with a tear gas canister fired by riot police in Istanbul's
Okmeydani neighborhood, Human Rights Watch reported in June. Berkin has been in
intensive care unit at Istanbul's Okmeydani Hospital for over 268 days. In a
Sunday press release, Elvan family's lawyer said that Berkin weights 16
kilograms and his body's resistance and brain functions are significantly
compromised.

Radikal reported that the police officer Ismail Aydin has claimed that his team
fired no tear gas canisters that day, adding that he did not know who used the
riot gun.

Police officers Cengizhan Kocabas, Uluhan Ulu and Deniz Ulutas said that they
hadn't used riot guns that day because they are not certified to do so. They
also said that, due to the long duration of the protest movement, they were
unable to remember the dates and locations of their postings.

Another police officer, Deniz Arslan, said that though he was licensed to use
riot guns, he was not working on the day Berkin was injured. He learned about
the incident from media outlets, he said. Police officer Ali Keles, who also has
a license for riot guns, testified that he did not fire one on June 16 and that
other officers also licensed to use the rifle were on duty at Okmeydani that
day.

"I do not remember who used it [the riot gun]. I didn't use it. If the riot
police records are checked, we can see who the rifle was registered to that day,
and who used it," Keles added.

Sefa Doyranli, head of the riot-control team posted to the area of the incident,
said he was in Okmeydani on the day the incident took place, but stressed that
he didn't fire the riot gun. "I don't remember who on our team was given a riot
gun," he added.

The daily also reported that the seven police officers who testified on Jan. 30
also claimed to not remember what happened on the day of the incident, or said
they weren't there.

Meanwhile, the Hurriyet daily reported that President Abdullah Gul called
Berkin's father Sami Elvan on Monday and wished the teenager a speedy recovery.
Gul also asked Sami Elvan about the 14-year-old's current condition.

"I feel deeply sorry about what happened. I share your pain. I am closely
following Berkin's situation. Let me know if you need anything," Gul said.

According to Hurriyet, Berkin's father asked Gul to stop police from using force
against people gathering in front of the hospital. Gul said he would call
Istanbul Governor Huseyin Avni Mutlu and ask him to handle the issue more
sensitively.

Earlier in January, riot police detained 10 protesters who had gathered on
Istanbul's Istiklal Street to demand justice for Berkin. A group of 50
protesters had gathered on Istiklal Street to stage a march in support of the
injured teenager.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Today's Zaman
                              All Rights Reserved


                             530 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday

Reading the Riots: May orders review of stop and search, but says there was no
excuse for riots: Reading the Riots: Home secretary says gangs played key part
in trouble Miliband calls for complex, comprehensive response

BYLINE: James Ball and Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 667 words


Theresa May announced a national review of how police use stop and search powers
yesterday in response to the findings of the Guardian/LSE report on the riots
that rocked several English cities this August.

Speaking at a conference on the Reading the Riots report, the home secretary
said she had asked the Association of Chief Police Officers to review the use of
stop and search by forces across the country.

The research found that anger at the police was a major factor fuelling the
London riots, with 86% of rioters citing policing as an important or very
important factor in causing the disturbances.

May said police were right to stop and search those caught in the riots as often
as they did, but said the tactic should be used proportionately. "Should we
worry that the rioters were eight times more likely than the average Londoner to
be stopped and searched, when the research found young rioters were 22 times
more likely than their peers to have been convicted of a crime?" she asked. "I
strongly believe that stop and search should be used proportionately, without
prejudice, and with the support of local communities."

May rejected rioters' assertions that the unrest was linked to alienation from
the police or the government and dismissed concerns raised in the report as
"excuses". "What the LSE/Guardian report tells me more than anything is that the
rioters still have not accepted responsibility for their actions," she said.
"They are still blaming others - the police, the government, society. They are
still making excuses, but I don't accept those excuses.

"The riots weren't about protests, unemployment, cuts," she added. "The riots
were not about the future, about tomorrow. They were about today. They were
about now. They were about instant gratification."

Her criticisms were rejected by Ed Miliband, the Labour leader. Addressing the
conference, he paid tribute to the research and said that when people did not
like research findings, they often "attacked the researchers".

"Some people, and I gather the home secretary did this this morning, give the
easy answer: it is criminality, and it only needs a criminal justice system
response . . . I have never been convinced the answers are as simple as that."

He called for a "more complex response" to the riots based around "greater
opportunities and values".

Miliband said poverty, poor education and a lack of hope and opportunity for
many of those who rioted had been a major factor in the disturbances.

He also pledged to make youth service provision - which has been severely hit by
government cuts - statutory. "Services that (councils) aren't legally obliged to
do can be cut," said Miliband. "I think there's a strong case for making youth
services statutory. Youth services are a place where local institutions get
nurtured."

The home secretary said aspects of the study's methodology concerned her. She
claimed the research was disproportionately weighted towards London, focused too
heavily on rioters and underplayed the role of criminality. She added that she
felt London's gangs had played a significant role in August's riots, despite
evidence that their role was minimal.

"I believe the fact that one in five rioters in London were gang members is
significant," she said. "We need to accept that not enough has been done over
the years to deal with this problem that we all knew existed and that we knew
was not being addressed. This government is committed to dealing with it."

Tim Newburn, the head of social policy for the LSE and lead academic on Reading
the Riots, said May's announcement was "hugely significant".

"Used inappropriately, stop and search can pose a huge challenge to public trust
and confidence in policing. Given the findings of Reading the Riots, an
assessment of good and bad practice is very timely," he said. Newburn also
praised Miliband's proposal for youth services.

Captions:

The scene in Clarence Road in Clapton, Hackney, when rioting spread on 8 August
Photograph: Dan Istitene/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             531 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   News Point

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

Inside Rahul Gandhi's mind: 10 important takeaways

LENGTH: 1120 words

DATELINE: India


India, Jan. 28 -- In his first sit-down television interview in 10 years,
Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi expressed his views on a number of issues
including his vision for India, Gujarat riots and performance of the UPA
government under Dr Manmohan Singh. 10 important takeaways:

Whether he is avoiding a direct face-off with Narendra Modi fearing loss

"To understand that question you have to understand a little bit about who Rahul
Gandhi is and what Rahul Gandhi's circumstances have been and if you delve into
that you will get an answer to the question of what Rahul Gandhi is scared of
and what he is not scared of."

"In my life I have seen my grandmother die, I have seen my father die, I have
seen my grandmother go to jail and I have actually been through a tremendous
amount of pain as a child when these things happen to you, what I had to (be)
scared of, I lost, there is absolutely nothing I am scared of."

Rahul's aim

"I have an aim, I have a clear aim in my mind and the aim is that I do not like
what I see in Indian politics, it is something that is inside my heart. It is
like in our mythology when they talk about Arjuna, he only sees one thing, he
does not see anything else, you asked me about Mr. Modi you ask me about
anything and the thing that I see is that the system in this country needs to
change, I don't see anything else and I am blind to everything else. I am blind
because I saw people I love destroyed by the system."

"What Rahul Gandhi wants to do, is Rahul Gandhi and millions of youngsters in
this country want to change the way the system in this country works. What Rahul
Gandhi wants to do is empower the women in this country, wants to unleash the
power of these women, I mean we talk about being a superpower..."

Gujarat riots

"The PM has stated his position on the Gujarat riots. The Gujarat riots took
place, people died, Mr. Narendra Modi was in charge of Gujarat at that point. I
am bringing you to a real ideological battle that is taking place here. The real
ideological battle that is taking place here and the one we are going to win and
that has always been one in this country is the battle of empowering people in
this country."

"The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984
the Government was trying to stop the riots. I remember, I was a child then, I
remember the Government was doing everything it could to stop the riots. In
Gujarat the opposite was the case. The Government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further. So there is a huge difference between
the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong."

On apologising for 1984 riots

"Some Congress men were probably involved. There is a legal process through
which they have gone through."

"First of all I wasn't involved in the riots at all. It wasn't that I was part
of it."

"I think that (the) riots, as all riots, were a horrible event. Frankly I was
not in operation in the Congress party."

Aam Aadmi Party

"I think that as far as I am concerned that the AAP won an election in Delhi and
we thought that we would assist them, because our party felt we should give them
a chance to prove themselves and one can see what they are doing and one can see
exactly how much they have proved themselves."

"I made a comment about the AAP where I said that there is something that we can
learn from them and what I felt that we could learn from them is that they
reached out to people in a particular way that was good, there are things that I
don't think we should take away from them."

Corruption

"We took action on the corrupt ministers. We have passed a bill in parliament.
The Lokpal Bill. The most powerful thing. We got you RTI and we got six bills
sitting in Parliament house. We have to change the way the system works. We are
always talking about peripheral things. We are never talking about the core
reason this system is corrupt. The core reason the season is corrupt is that
there is too much concentration of power in the system and people on the
peripheries do not have power."

Changing the system

"My long term view is that we need to take the Indian political system to a
different place. We need to bring in youngsters and we need to move away from
this concentration of power. Unfortunately the political system today is at a
particular place and I can't simply ignore the fact that the political system is
at that place, so certainly there are points at which you might have to take a
decision that you are not a 100% happy with but the long term idea for me is to
transform the system, to bring in youngsters and make sure they are empowered."

Vote winning ability

"I would say when we win an election, when we won Uttarakhand, Himachal and when
we won Karnataka, I am not involved, when we lose an election I am the cause of
it. But once again I think what the Congress Party need to do is tap its
potential, what the Congress party needs to do is change the way the its
organisation is structured and look at changing the way politics in this country
is structured, that is where I think we should head."

Dynastic politics

"I don't actually keep invoking my family name, I have mentioned my family name
once or twice and then people report that. The real issue is that I didn't
choose to be born in this family, I didn't sign up and say that I like to be
born in this family it happened, so the choice in front of me is pretty simple I
can either turn around and say okay I will just walk away from this thing and
leave it alone or I can say I can try and improve something."

"I am absolutely against the concept of Dynasty, anybody who knows me knows that
and understands that. But you are not going to wish away Dynasty in a closed
system, you have to open the system. Dynasty or children of politicians becoming
powerful happens in the BJP, it happens in the DMK, it happens in the SP, it
happens in the Congress party, it happens everywhere."

On personal attacks on him

"I respond by understanding why I'm being attacked. I'm being attacked because
I'm doing things that are dangerous to the system. I'm being attacked because
I'm asking questions that are dangerous to the system. And I'm not asking
superficial questions."

"...And everybody understands that this fellow here is not just a superficial
chap who talks. This fellow over here is thinking deeply and is thinking long
term. That's why I'm attacked. I understand that. And frankly, attack me all you
want. Beat me to death. It's not going to stop me. I'm going to keep doing it."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from News Point. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                          Copyright 2014 NewsPoint TV
                              All Rights Reserved


                             532 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             533 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             534 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             535 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             536 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             537 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             538 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             539 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             540 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             541 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             542 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             543 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             544 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             545 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             546 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             547 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             548 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             549 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             550 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             551 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             552 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             553 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             554 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             555 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             556 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             557 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             558 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             559 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             560 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             561 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             562 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             563 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             564 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             565 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             566 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             567 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             568 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             569 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             570 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             571 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             572 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             573 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             574 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             575 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             576 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             577 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             578 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             579 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             580 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             581 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             582 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             583 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             584 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             585 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             586 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             587 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             588 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             589 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             590 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             591 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             592 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             593 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             594 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

BYLINE: Amanda Crook

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


BUSINESSES across Greater Manchester are still waiting for payouts to cover
damage caused in the riots a year on.

Thirty-one claims, including 10 worth more than 50,000, are still being
considered by loss adjusters.

The government has offered 1.25m in compensation through the Greater Manchester
Police Authority, in a bid to settle 410 claims following the trouble in
Manchester and Salford. But so far only 868,000 has been accepted and paid out.

The insurance industry is now calling on the government to review the Riot
Damages Act to simplify, speed up and improve the claims process.

There are six ongoing claims from businesses without adequate insurance.

They are:

n Two high-value claims being dealt with by loss adjusters

n Two large companies with a high policy excess

n Two smaller businesses, who were not insured or were under insured.

Another 25 claims are outstanding from organisations that were insured.

Of the total of 410 claims, 101 came from businesses without adequate insurance
25 of these have been rejected. Of the 309 claims from insured businesses, 187
have been rejected.

The M.E.N. understands Harvey Nichols claimed 15,000 and Lidl claimed 600,000
after its Salford store was looted and set on fire.

Ian Hargreaves, independent member and chair of the GMPA Value for Money
Committee, said: The police authority has always taken a positive and proactive
approach to dealing with claims made under the Riot Damages Act.

That we only have 31 outstanding claims is testament to the commitment of police
authority staff to make sure that the impact on our communities is minimal.

Insurance companies had 3,000 riot claims across the country and expect to pay
out around 200m in compensation.

The Association of British Insurers say it is too early to say whether premiums
will increase as a result of the riots.

Insurers will only increase their prices if they are unable to reclaim their
costs from the government a process which is continuing.

But many businesses are already having to pay higher premiums as the riot claims
have revealed that they were under-insured.

The ABI wants to see urgent reform of The Riots Damages Act (1886) including:

n A clear, more modern, legislative definition of a riot so victims in different
places are not treated differently.

n Streamlining and standardising of the claims process for police authorities.

n The time period for notification of claims for Riot Damages Act extended from
14 to 90 days.

Meanwhile, police bosses are waiting for just 6,500 compensation for policing
the riots. The government originally said it would refund Greater Manchester
Police Authority 85 per cent of the money Greater Manchester Police spent
policing and investigating the riots. They later agreed to pay the full costs.

The cost of policing and investigating the riots was 3.45m. GMPA has claimed and
received back the full amount, bar a remaining 6,500, which is still to be
claimed. The 3.45m includes money spent on providing mutual aid to other forces.

Police chiefs lobbied the Home Office, persuading them not to leave GMP with an
estimated 500,000 bill, at a time when they were trying to save 134m.

The fire service have also received compensation, expected to total 9m.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             595 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 4, 1993, Tuesday, Final Edition

Look Who Looted

Richard Cohen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A21

LENGTH: 734 words


Right after the Newark riots of 1967 (26 killed), I went door to door asking
about the stores that had been looted. Had the storekeepers sold on credit? Were
they hated? I did that because I had read that in the Watts riots of 1965, the
looters had exercised some discretion. They had trashed only the stores of hated
shopkeepers. In Newark, that was not the case.

Now comes a Los Angeles Times survey of people convicted of crimes during the
L.A. riots. Once again, we find the looters were without sociological or
political purpose. They were after loot -- and not, for the most part, food. The
Times studied nearly 700 people convicted of riot-related felonies (90 percent
of them looters) and found their number one target was electronics gear followed
by liquor, clothing and auto parts. Food and baby goods made up only 9 percent
of what was taken.

The riots were supposedly triggered by the near exoneration of the police
officers who had beaten Rodney King. But for all the talk of the riots being an
"insurrection" or a "rebellion," the police reported only one riot-related crime
in which King was mentioned. His name was invoked by two men, one white the
other Latino, who robbed a black merchant at gun-point. Their reference to King
was hardly adulatory.

The statistical profile of the looters is hardly a surprise. It's similar to the
one developed by the Kerner Commission following the 1967 riots in various
cities. Your typical looter is a young male, poor, likely to be unemployed, a
high school dropout and a short-term tenant. For all the reports of yuppies
engaging in the sacking of L.A., not one was found. On the contrary, the typical
rioter (60 percent) had a criminal record. No condo owners here.

In short, the Times has confirmed that criminals commit crime. It's true that
there are all sorts of cultural and economic causes of crime, but it stands
logic on its head to describe the riots as a rebellion. All that language does
is provide a tortured justification for theft, arson and murder. It implies that
a kind of grand equity is at work, as if the stealing of stereo equipment is the
equivalent of the sacking of grain warehouses by starving peasants. Just in
terms of the preferred beverage -- liquor -- this so-called rebellion is hard to
distinguish from spring break at the beach.

One would think that after the riots of the 1960s, lessons would have been
learned. The wounds inflicted in many communities have not healed. Yet the voice
of moral outrage has been muffled, while riots are treated as some sort of
economic upheaval and not as what they are -- the collapse of law and order.
Now, we even see attempts to coopt street gangs, to treat them with respect and
try to channel them into established enterprises. This has been attempted before
and has failed, but it bestows legitimacy on what are criminal organizations
composed of punks and goons.

In a recent speech, Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.) waxed nostalgic about
the New York City of his youth. It was a safer, more efficient and altogether
more livable city 50 years ago. Although New York in 1943 had 150,000 more
people than it does now (and much poverty), it had relatively little violent
crime -- 44 homicides by gun vs. 1,499 last year. The conclusion is inescapable:
Something other than sheer economics plays a role in crime. That other factor --
or at least a piece of it -- is culture, a broad word, which can mean many
things.

Inescapably, though, one aspect of our culture is the refusal to condemn
criminal behavior. That lack of unambiguous reproof -- or one so freighted with
sociological caveats that it amounts to nothing at all -- was present after the
L.A. riots. It's not that anyone approved of the riots -- those days, thank
goodness, are gone -- it was rather that in some cases the rioters were not the
only ones blamed. So, too, was government and society -- a lack of jobs, poor
schools etc.

None of that can be overlooked. After all, people with jobs have something to
lose and are therefore restrained in their behavior. But the statistics compiled
by the L.A. Times strongly suggest that most of those who looted did so because
they simply did what they felt like doing. It's hard to blame society for the
looting of a liquor store. It's getting easier, though, to blame those who
persist in blaming everything other than the criminal himself.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                             596 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            February 28, 2016 Sunday

riot gear to be kept in police vehicles;
The move marks a change of tactics in the wake of widespread criticism of police
preparedness for and handling of the recent disturbances

BYLINE: Christy Leung and Clifford Lo

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CITY; nws hongkong 02.pgl; Mong Kok Riot;
Pg.6

LENGTH: 550 words


In a change of tactics, riot gear ­including tear gas canisters and rifles is
likely to be stored in police vehicles during deployments, the Sunday Morning
Post has learned.

This comes in the wake of criticism by officers of police handling of the Mong
Kok riot. One frontline officer commented: "Top management finally woke up from
a long dream."

A top police source told the Post that the force was examining whether all
vehicles from the Emergency Unit (EU) and Police Tactical Unit (PTU) should
store tear gas canisters, semi-automatic AR15 rifles, Federal Riot guns and
rubber bullets.

"[The implemention of the plan] is just a matter of time. The management
realised this necessity after the Mong Kok riot," said the source. "Our tactics
need to be revised."

Riot gear is currently understood to be stored in five regional bases and police
headquarters in Wan Chai. The weapons are not loaded onto police cars and are
deployed only when needed. The Kowloon West operational base is in Mong Kok
police station, close to the site of the riot.

Emergency Unit officers are equipped with gear including helmets, shields, MP5
submachine guns and Remington arms.

With protests becoming more violent in recent years,the force has had no time to
go back and forth to collect riot gear.

"Clashes break out instantly. If the responding units had enough gear at the
scene, we would not have to wait for an hour for the PTU to arrive," said the
source.

The bloody overnight violence in Mong Kok on February 8 left nearly 130 people -
including more than 90 officers - injured. Apart from the firing of two live
rounds in the air, officers used just batons and pepper spray.

Commenting on the proposal, an Emergency Unit officer from Kowloon West who
spoke on condition of anonymity said: "It's a timely wake-up call. Finally the
top officers who stay in their office have woken up."

Junior police union chairman Joe Chan Cho-kwong, who is also an EU officer in
Kowloon East, said he could not welcome the plan as the team was always supposed
to have such equipment.

"When our duties changed over the decades from anti-riot to emergency response,
the gear was offloaded from vehicles," said Chan. "We are just back to the
basics."

Police Director of Operations Alan Lau Yip-shing earlier told the Legislative
Council that EU teams which had finished their duties policing the crowds at a
Lunar New Year parade in Tsim Sha Tsui, were deployed to Mong Kok shortly before
midnight. More EU and PTU personnel with riot gear were sent at 1.30am after
rioters became more violent.

Another EU officer from Kowloon West told the Post that the team was asked to
bring four items - ballistic helmets, long batons, gas masks and riot shields.

"We knew it was going to be a hard battle, so we asked the top commander at the
scene if tear gas and Federal Riot guns were needed. He answered 'I have said
very clearly what to bring'. What else could we do?" he asked.

It is understood the officer was referring to Crusade Yau Siu-kei, acting Mong
Kok district commander that night.

"Tear gas is no longer an ­option after what happened in the Occupy movement. No
one wants to bear responsibility," the ­officer said.

In another development, a 25-year-old man was arrested yesterday in connection
with the Mong Kok riot, bringing the total to 77.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             597 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Ely Standard

                             June 2, 2016 Thursday

BYLINE: PR Script Managers

SECTION: LETT

LENGTH: 567 words


Cries of 'bread or blood!' rang through the streets of Littleport as hundreds of
pupils from Littleport Community Primary School marched through the town to
commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Bread Riots.

Cries of 'bread or blood!' rang through the streets of Littleport as hundreds of
pupils from Littleport Community Primary School marched through the town to
commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Bread Riots.



Pupils from the school recreated the scenes from the infamous riots by dressing
up and taking to the streets of Littleport on Friday May 27.

The groups set off from the site of former pub The Globe - where dozens of angry
residents gathered to discuss the raising prices of grain before rioting 200
years ago - before making their way through the town and finishing at St.
George's church.

The groups - led by trustees of Adam's Heritage Centre, Grenville Goodson and
councillor Deborah Jordan - punched the air and chanted 'bread or blood' as they
were guided through the town and shown where many of the rioters lived and
worked.

The youngsters were also shown an exhibition inside the Heritage Centre
organised by the Field Theatre Group, which detailed the events before, during
and after the riots, including the subsequent trials and hanging of William
Beamiss, George Crow, John Dennis, Isaac Harley and Thomas South.

Cllr Jordan says that the riots form an important part of Littleport life. She
said: "The history of the riots is fascinating and it's the biggest thing
relating to history in Littleport.

"The events we've had here have been brilliant; we've had descendants of some of
the rioters come along - even one from New Zealand.

"It's taken months of research into the court trials and it took about a week to
put the exhibition together."

The town is to conclude its commemoration of the riots by holding a memorial
walk and service for those who were executed on Saturday June 25.

Pupils from the school recreated the scenes from the infamous riots by dressing
up and taking to the streets of Littleport on Friday May 27.

The groups set off from the site of former pub The Globe - where dozens of angry
residents gathered to discuss the raising prices of grain before rioting 200
years ago - before making their way through the town and finishing at St.
George's church.

The groups - led by trustees of Adam's Heritage Centre, Grenville Goodson and
councillor Deborah Jordan - punched the air and chanted 'bread or blood' as they
were guided through the town and shown where many of the rioters lived and
worked.

The youngsters were also shown an exhibition inside the Heritage Centre
organised by the Field Theatre Group, which detailed the events before, during
and after the riots, including the subsequent trials and hanging of William
Beamiss, George Crow, John Dennis, Isaac Harley and Thomas South.

Cllr Jordan says that the riots form an important part of Littleport life. She
said: "The history of the riots is fascinating and it's the biggest thing
relating to history in Littleport.

"The events we've had here have been brilliant; we've had descendants of some of
the rioters come along - even one from New Zealand.

"It's taken months of research into the court trials and it took about a week to
put the exhibition together."

The town is to conclude its commemoration of the riots by holding a memorial
walk and service for those who were executed on Saturday June 25.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ELY


                    Copyright 2016 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             598 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

BJP accuses Rahul of dodging real issues

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Oct. 24 -- After Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi accused the BJP
of fanning communal passions and inciting violence in Muzafarnagar, the main
Opposition party reacted sharply asking the Congress to explain the 1984
anti-Sikh riots and accused the ruling party of trying to deflect attention from
core issues of price rise and corruption.

BJP leaders said Rahul was making baseless charges and directed the Congress to
look into its own track record.

"If political parties are responsible for riots, then what the Congress has to
say about the 1984 riots in which all those killed belonged to a particular
religion? who is responsible for the riots in Mumbai (1993), Bhiwandi (1985),
Meerut (1987), Moradabad (1980) and Surat (1969)? More people died in these
riots and there were charges that the police acted in a partisan manner. What
does Rahul have to say about them?" BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi asked.

Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "It is
very unfortunate that Rahul has spoken about the assassination of his
grandmother and illness of his mother during electioneering and made an
emotional appeal to the people to vote for the Congress."

BJP leaders said Rahul's emotional pitch was aimed at diverting attention from
real issues. Trivedi said the Congress was trying to divert attention from the
core issues of price rise, corruption and mal-governance.

BJP spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi said, "With regard to rioting history, he
better remember the 1984 riots, and he would better off remembering the deeds of
his father and grandmother. In the 1967 riots, his grandmother made a statement
directly about the Gujarat riots. Post that, in 1969, till 2002 there were riots
every year in Gujarat. Come to the Narendra Modi Government, Gujarat has not
seen a single riot," Lekhi said.

The BJP also questioned Rahul's statement during the rally on the highways
construction and Land Acquisition Bill. "The minister (Jairam Ramesh), who moved
the legislation, had thanked Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj
in Parliament for supporting the bill," Trivedi said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             599 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

David Cameron aims to extend citizen service scheme in aftermath of riots

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 464 words

ABSTRACT

PM wants voluntary scheme available to every teenager after GCSEs, and says
riots showed 'deep problems' in society

FULL TEXT

David Cameron has said he wants to roll out his national citizen service scheme
more widely than originally planned because the recent riots have highlighted
the importance of teaching young people about responsibility and
self-discipline.

The prime minister said he wanted the scheme to be available to every teenager
after GCSEs so that young people could learn "that real fulfilment comes not
from trashing things or being selfish but by building things and working with
others".

In , Cameron reaffirmed his belief that the riots illustrated the existence of
"deep problems" in society such as a decline in responsibility and a rise in
selfishness.

Cameron's analysis contrasts sharply with that of Tony Blair  Blair said Britain
was "not in the grip of some general moral decline", and that instead the riots
were caused by a particular minority, "the group of young, alienated,
disaffected youth who are outside the social mainstream".

Cameron has already announced pilot citizen service schemes, which will involve
teenage volunteers from different backgrounds working together on community
projects. Some 11,000 teenagers will be involved in pilots this year, and 30,000
in 2012.

Cameron said the riots had made him reconsider his plans. "Before the riots we
were already looking to roll this out across the country, with up to 30,000
teenagers taking part next year, but after the riots, I feel our ambitions
weren't big enough," he said.

"I want the national citizen service to be available to every teenager after
GCSEs. I want them to learn that they can make a difference in their communities
and that real fulfilment comes not from trashing things or being selfish but by
building things and working with others."

Cameron's idea is likely to be popular. According to  77% of people would
support national citizen service being compulsory for young people.

Cameron said he wanted the police to be more visible on the streets. "We need a
stronger police presence on the streets, deterring crime and catching criminals
instead of filling in forms or wasting time on phony targets. That is what
people want."

He said the "misrepresentation of human rights" had contributed to moral decline
by undermining personal responsibility.

"We are looking at creating our own British bill of rights," he said. "We are
going to fight in Europe for changes to the way the European court works and we
will fight to ensure people understand the real scope of these rights and do not
use them as cover for rules or excuses that fly in the face of common sense."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             600 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                             April 23, 2006 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

GENEALOGY;
Events in September will mark 1906 Atlanta riot

BYLINE: KENNETH H. THOMAS JR.

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 5MS

LENGTH: 453 words


The remembrance of the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot takes place in September, and
several local groups are continuing research on that subject. The Metro Atlanta
Chapter of the Afro-American Historical and Genealogical Society and the
Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot are seeking family members of
those involved in the riot in any capacity.

In particular, they are seeking descendants of individuals murdered or wounded
in the riot, so they can be properly recognized during the centennial. Among
those known to have been killed or wounded during the riot: Mattie Adams,
Eustace Brown, Milton Brown, Walter Brown, Wiley Brooks, Marshall Carter, Georg
Dickerson, Stinson Ferguson, James Fletcher, Frank Fambro, Malcolm Harris,
Officer Jim Heard, Andrew Holly, Walter Jeffers, Zeb Long, Leola Maddox, Will
Marion, Luther McGee, Sam McGruder, J.C. McCoy, Jim Middlebrooks, Will Moreland,
Ben Nelson, Milton Peterson, James N. Reeves, Clem Rhodes, Sam Robinson, Annie
Laurie Shepard, Frank Smith, Roy Thomas, Tom Walton, William Wardlow, Ed Watson,
Henry Welch and George Wilder.

If you have any information about these individuals, or about any others
involved in or witness to the riot, contact the AAHGS at
AAHGS_metroatlanta@yahoo.com or Clarissa Myrick-Harris and Cliff Kuhn of the
Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot at
publiceducation@1906atlantaraceriot.org or 770-423-6069. Mailing address for
Cliff Kuhn: History Department, Georgia State University, P.O. Box 4117,
Atlanta, GA 30302-4117.

Information on the riot and planned events is at www.1906atlantaraceriot.org.

Georgia Salzburgers

The Georgia Salzburger Society, including its Greater Atlanta chapter, has many
activities going on and several new publications. The Web site for the state
society is www.georgiasalzburgers.com, and publications are listed there. The
society and museum are at 2980 Ebenezer Road, Rincon, GA 31326. The museum ---
housed in the circa-1760s Jerusalem Church, among the oldest church buildings in
Georgia --- is open only a few days a week, so call 912-754-7001 before you go.

In 2004, the society published an expanded, four-volume set of "Georgia
Salzburgers and Allied Families," which can be found in the Georgia Room of the
central library (Marietta) of the Cobb County library system and at Washington
Memorial Library in Macon. They are working toward further translations from the
German of unpublished letters of Pastor Bolzius.

For information about the Greater Atlanta chapter, which meets twice a year
(next meeting is Sept. 24), contact president James Heidt at the state society's
address above.

Contact Kenneth H. Thomas Jr. at P.O. Box 901, Decatur, GA 30031, or the Web
site www.gagensociety.org

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             601 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Fans blamed for riot; Most people charged have no criminal past

BYLINE: Sam Cooper, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 442  words


It was the kid next door, not hardened anarchists, who trashed Vancouver streets
during last week's Stanley Cup riot, officials now say.

After Wednesday's riot, Mayor Gregor Robertson, Chief Const. Jim Chu and B.C.
Premier Christy Clark all claimed a small group of criminals bent on destruction
were responsible.

And according to a new Angus Reid poll, three-quarters of people living in B.C.
and Metro Vancouver believe that theory. But a more innocent-looking face of
riot mayhem is emerging in the hard facts of formal charges.

"We are learning that most of the people that joined in the riot and that have
now been charged represent a wider spectrum of young people, many of whom do not
have criminal records," Chu said Monday.

Police say 117 people have been arrested for a variety of offences, and many
charges are pending. But of eight formal charges announced Monday, six
unidentified people had no criminal records, and most were teens.

A number of people have come forward to apologize for their part in the
destruction and thefts.

After being outed in a video online, University of B.C. student Camille Cacnio
admitted to looting during the riot and confessed to police.

"At the time of the riot, everything just seemed so right," Cacnio wrote online.
"It was simply to fulfil the adrenalin rush I was looking and hoping for . . .
an adrenalin rush that I previously got from post-winning games: hugging
randoms, dancing on the streets, honking car horns non-stop and high-fiving just
about everybody."

Simon Fraser University psychologist Stephen Wright said Cacnio's explanation
rings true, and after examining video evidence, he believes there are several
groups mixed up in the riot.

The first, a very small group of anar-chists prepared to incite a riot. The
second, a growing group of "fighting" male Canucks fans in the Lower Mainland
similar to U.K. football hooligans and a group of mobile-phone filmers and
social-media users who cheered on participants.

But the "most interesting" segment of riot participants, according to Wright, is
a large group who were guilty of matching the dominant crowd behaviour.

"I think the kids that were jumping on police cars [following the Canucks' loss]
would have been high-fiving police if that's what everyone else was doing," said
Wright.

Officials -who failed to publicly outline an alternative crowd-control plan and
be realistic about a growing core of hooligan fans -need to take some
responsibility as well, Wright said.

"We had no alternative plan for a loss," Wright said. "If I was the mayor, I
would have a good plan for a celebration of a loss, as bizarre as that sounds."

scooper@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reuters; A man in a Canucks jersey confronts Vancouver police during
last Wednesday's Stanley Cup riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             602 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday
                                  WEB Edition

Daughters of Riot Grrrl

BYLINE: By Samantha Melamed; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: FEATURES MAGAZINE; P-com Ent. The Arts; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 990 words


It takes less than a minute for two women in hoods and scarves to stencil a
message outside a Fishtown strip club: the phrase "Nice ass," nested inside a
circle with a slash through it. Then, they're on the move, stopping every block
or so to wheat-paste a poster or lay down another stenciled phrase they'd advise
men to leave unsaid: "Hey sexy," or "Can I call u."

"I was getting pretty fed up with the idea that we're all walking around and
getting hollered at, and there's lots of talk about it but not much action,"
said Sarah, one of the politically minded vandals, and a member of a collective
of anonymous activists called Pussy Division. "It feels good to do something
proactive."

The group of women, mostly aged 25 to 35 and from South Philadelphia, were teens
or younger during the early-1990s height of Riot Grrrl, the punk feminist
movement that promulgated ideas of female empowerment, creative resistance, and
do-it-yourself action. Now, like other artists, musicians, activists, and
gallerists who've since come of age in Philadelphia and across the country, they
view their work as part of Riot Grrrl's enduring legacy.

"What we're doing is not Riot Grrrl, but it's influenced by Riot Grrrl," said
another member, who goes by Gia. "I'm influenced by the music, by the idea that
we can do things ourselves and create things ourselves."

The scope of that influence - or, at least, a sampling of it - is on display
this month at Vox Populi, in a traveling exhibition called "Alien She" that's
billed as the first to focus on Riot Grrrl's enduring impact on artists working
today.

Works on view include pieces from Joanie 4 Jackie; Miranda July's video "chain
letter," a pre-YouTube effort to build a community of female filmmakers through
the mail; and San Francisco-based artist Stephanie Syjuco's Free Text, a wall of
fliers with tear-off tabs bearing the URLs for downloading various copyrighted
critical works.

Also included are hundreds of handmade zines and concert posters reflecting the
movement's broad-based, grassroots membership.

The exhibition's curators, Astria Suparak and Ceci Moss, were involved with Riot
Grrrl as teenagers in California in the 1990s, writing zines, playing in bands,
and organizing meetings and conventions.

"One of the most interesting things is that we've seen how Riot Grrrl has
influenced our friends, peers, artists, and colleagues today," Moss said. "Riot
Grrrl has had an impact not just in the communities we're involved in, but also
internationally."

Not only does the Russian feminist/punk/protest group Pussy Riot trace a direct
line back to Riot Grrrl and bands such as Bikini Kill (whose 1993 song "Alien
She" lends its title to the exhibition), but Riot Grrrl chapters are still
springing up from Brazil to Malaysia.

In Philadelphia, where Pussy Division is now making its stencil designs
available online for anyone to download and use, the impact is evident on
sidewalks and on stop signs, which the activists have, with stickers, turned
into "stop rape" signs.

The collective also has partnered with Vox Populi to organize an event series
around "Alien She," from grrrl-powered rock shows (at least one member, Sarah,
is in a feminist-punk band herself) to karaoke to panel discussions to
self-defense classes. There's also a zine-making workshop, led by Vox Populi
artist and zinester Beth Heinly.

Zines, which helped disseminate those punk-feminist ideas via snail mail in the
movement's heyday, remain central to post-Riot Grrrl practice, said Kelly
Phillips a zine writer and comics producer from West Philadelphia.

"That was the music I grew up around," she said. "And then, as an adult,
realizing what was behind it - the message sort of hits you at that point."

So, when she and fellow artist Claire Folkman noticed that the comic anthologies
being published mostly featured men, they decided to do something about it. "If
we put out our own anthologies, then we would be able to highlight our work and
other girls' work - not just a handful of them in a sea of men," she said.

They're now working on the largest-ever edition of their anthology, called Dirty
Diamonds, running a Kickstarter campaign to drum up interest in advance of a
planned May publication date.

"When I think about Riot Grrrl, the idea of it is to strengthen women's presence
in the creative arts, so I see a really strong connection between the Riot Grrrl
movement and the presence of women artists in Philadelphia," Phillips said. "We
like to think we're a part of that. We're trying to promote women, and tell
women's stories."

To the same end, Vox Populi is inviting Philadelphia zine creators to submit
works to a local-zine rack included in the exhibition. And, throughout the
duration of "Alien She" - which came here from Pittsburgh and goes on to San
Francisco, Orange County, Calif., and Portland, Ore., next year - Suparak and
Moss are inviting local viewers to contribute to an online map of Riot Grrrl
chapters past and present, and to a "census" (online at
riotgrrrlcensus.tumblr.com) where they can describe how it shaped their lives.

Moss said the impact surprised even her.

"Through the census, you see how incredibly important Riot Grrl was for so many
people. For a lot of people, it was their first introduction to politics and
their first introduction to activism."

GRRRL GOES ON

Alien She

Vox Populi, 319 N. 11th St., noon to 6 p.m. Wednesday through Sunday.
215-238-1236 or www.voxpopuligallery.org. Through April 27

Full Circle

Panel discussion, noon Saturday, Philadelphia Photo Arts Center, 1400 N.
American St., 215-232-5678

The Smokin' Gun Revue: Grrrl Power Edition

Dead Flowers Cabaret performs burlesque and sideshow; music by Demonstrative
Girls. 9 p.m. Saturday at Connie's Ric Rac, 1132 S. Ninth St., 215-279-7587

Zine workshop

Noon Sunday, Philadelphia Photo Arts Center, 1400 N. American St., 215-232-5678

smelamed@philly.com

215-854-5053

@samanthamelamed


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             603 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 23, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Riots have given rise to political opportunism on all sides

BYLINE: DavidHiggerson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 436 words


THE riots which engulfed parts of England have ensured that, for a second year
running, Westminster has been unable to fall into the long summer slumber it's
so used to.

Last year, the summer standstill was cancelled by the coalition government,
determined to make an impact within 100 days.

This summer, however, has been less about the Tories and Lib-Dems showing they
are in control and more about the ruling parties - along with Labour - trying to
demonstrate who has the best handle on post-riot Britain.

Ed Miliband is very critical of the Government's "policy a day" blizzard which,
he argues, is long on rhetoric and short on substance. He's right, of course,
but as any politician in government will tell you, at times of crisis it isn't
so much what you do, as what you're seen to be doing which matters.

Miliband's response to the riots has been more considered - but can still be
summed up as "Let's have an inquiry! Let's all think before we take action!" The
translation here is "We don't know what to do."

On all sides, there has been an abundance of using the riots to re-ignite
debates on hobby horse issues. Harriet Harman, increasingly the Labour spokesman
of choice for lost causes, insists the riots were, in part, due to government
cuts. Opportunism gone mad? Probably. But the worst seen so far has been the
slating home secretary Theresa May gave members of police authorities - the
bodies which police chiefs report to in each area - in the wake of the riots.
May is keen to scrap the police authorities, saying they aren't directly
elected.

May has asked where the police authorities were in the aftermath of the riots.
"Why weren't they reassuring people?" she said. The answer, of course, is that
they aren't there to do that. Police authorities hold police forces to account,
they don't do the policing for them.

May claims that no-one elects police authority members. True, but most members
are councillors from councils within a police force's area, so are indirectly
elected. In that sense they are no different to May herself. Her constituents
didn't vote for her to be home secretary, they voted for her to be their MP.

May's attempt to annex the riots to push her own agenda on replacing police
authorities with directly-elected police commissioners is very cynical, and this
is why the country can't afford to have an opposition which wants to stop and
have a think about how to respond to the riots.

In the wake of the riots, the last thing police forces need is another
re-arranging of the deckchairs in the way they are run - and that's what Labour
should be saying now.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             604 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Warning bells before detainee riots;
Island situation precarious: inquiry

BYLINE: KIRSTY NEEDHAM IMMIGRATION CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 479 words


THE Immigration Department was warned severe overcrowding at the detention
centre on Christmas Island would cause a serious incident five months before
riots broke out there. That is the finding of an independent inquiry into the
Christmas Island and Villawood riots, by former public servants Allan Hawke and
Helen Williams. Released yesterday, the report said the failure of the
department to brief Immigration Minister Chris Bowen on the warning until March
2011 was "highly regrettable". The report has described conditions on Christmas
Island before the riots as "severely compromised" - with failing sewerage
systems, a "precarious" supply of water and access to toilets and education
under stress.

Detainee numbers had leapt to 2530 on the island. Knowledge Consulting warned in
October 2010 that safety was compromised, accommodation was unsuitable and
detainees had no meaningful activities. A freeze on processing Sri Lankan and
Afghan asylum claims a year earlier caused a backlog and "significant impact on
the detention network". The inquiry found that adding to this explosive mix was
an influx of middle-class Iranian asylum seekers "who had higher expectations of
service and lower tolerance for any perceived slowness in processing or
inconsistency in decision-making or failure to achieve a positive result". Riots
on Christmas Island, sparked on March 11, caused $2.5 million in damages, while
riots at Villawood in Sydney a month later cost $6 million. Serco, the private
company that runs the detention network, was warned of the planned mass escape
and riot on Christmas Island four days earlier, but a teleconference with the
Immigration Department in Canberra dismissed an informant's warning. The report
blamed both riots in part on the detention network's inability to manage a core
group of angry asylum seekers who had been rejected. It said 80 of the 100
detainees identified as taking part in the Christmas Island riot had received
initial rejections and were waiting for a review. Thirteen of the 19 charged had
been rejected as refugees at the first interview. Of the nine detainees charged
over the Villawood riot, all had received a negative primary decision. The
report called for the contract with Serco to be revised to improve security and
co-ordination with police. Immigration Minister Chris Bowen said: "This is not
necessarily about the time taken for processing, not about the conditions in
detention, but about the number of people in immigration detention who had been
rejected." Opposition immigration spokesman Scott Morrison said: "Overcrowding
was the key contributing factor, compounded by a failure to respond to the
mounting pressures in the network and heed the numerous warnings of the trouble
that was brewing." He said the government's recent shift to offer bridging visas
meant the rioters had now got what they wanted.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             605 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Copyright 2016 Zoom Information Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                            Zoom Company Information

                                   July 2016

                                 Riot Media Inc

                         252 West 38Th Street Suite 505
                              New York,  NY 10018
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * COMMUNICATIONS * * * * * * * * * *
TELEPHONE: (212) 221-7608
URL: www.riotweb.com

* * * * * * * * * * COMPANY INFORMATION * * * * * * * * * *
EMPLOYEES: 12

* * * * * * * * * * DESCRIPTION * * * * * * * * * *

   RIOT Media, Inc. is dedicated to amusing, entertaining, and informing
America's 14 million tween boys. RIOT offers the coolest, funniest, grossest,
freakiest, and most disgusting selection of content and products celebrating the
tastes and preferences of our fans. Much of RIOT's stuff is guided by an
on-going original RIOT adventure featuring underdog tween boy heroes and Riot
the Chimp defending the home turf against an evil, sinister circus. The Riot
back story will be introduced in a big way in the coming months.  In addition to
our state-of-the-art interactive website, www.Riotweb.com, RIOT also features
RIOT magazine, RIOT comic books, a collectible card game, electronic games,
mobile entertainment, clothing, stickers, posters, and school supplies. TV and
home video is on its way. A professional belching and farting competition is
also being considered.

* * * * * * * * * * FINANCIALS * * * * * * * * * *

REVENUE: USD 2,400,000

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016


                             606 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Police riot squad to double;
New chief fears UK-style rampage in Melbourne EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: REID SEXTON STATE POLITICAL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words


VICTORIA Police is set to more than double the number of specialist anti-riot
officers in a move that Chief Commissioner Ken Lay says is partly a response to
images of rioting mobs in England last year.

Membership of the police riot squad will grow from 50 to 110 after Mr Lay
recently signed off on the move.

He told The Age that in the past, when squad members had been pulled out of
regions to confront trouble, some areas had been left under-policed. He said the
boost in squad numbers would stop this occurring.

Mr Lay revealed his decision was partly a response to vision he saw of the
England riots in August, when packs looted and burnt their way through several
major cities in response to a London police shooting.

"[The riots] caused me to question what our response was, what our response
would be if we had a similar incident," Mr Lay said. "I certainly thought that
there was room to make us better.

"For many years we've seen our vans turn up at pretty ugly incidents where
they've been put at great risk . . . I think the community can rightly expect
that in those situations we've got a capacity to solve it and solve it
properly."

Mr Lay, who flagged a return to traditional policing when appointed last
November, said training for new members of the squad would take place over the
next three or four months.

Squad members will perform regular front-line duties when not assigned to large
gatherings that spill out of control.

Mr Lay denied that the move was a response to the Occupy Melbourne
demonstrations in October - when police clashed fiercely with protesters - but
said that was an instructive experience for the police force.

While street violence remained a major problem for police, he said this was not
a driving factor in increasing the size of the squad.

However, he confirmed the move was influenced by the growing number of
front-line police at his disposal as the Baillieu government delivers on its
pre-election promises.

The number of frontline officers is set to grow by 400 in the year to June.

Mr Lay said the new riot squad members would be on call during anticipated busy
times to protect both police and the public. "[It] may well be from time to time
we'll have these people working on a Friday and Saturday night so when our
general duties fellas and girls get faced with this situation they have got an
ability to roll out and address it and hit it hard," he said.

"Often we see parties that get out of control, kids' parties [where] we end up
with five and six and 700 kids that we need to be able to get there quickly and
have a very aggressive approach to stop it quickly and protect our members."

But the move has sparked concern from civil liberty groups, which have
questioned the need for a large increase. Liberty Victoria acting president Jane
Dixon said there had been no events locally that justified such a move.

Demonstrating was a fundamental democratic right, Ms Dixon said, and an expanded
riot squad in shields and helmets could potentially leave people feeling
intimidated without justification.

Tamar Hopkins, of the Flemington and Kensington Community Legal Centre, said the
move was a massive overreaction. She said the England riots were apparently
caused by the unnecessary shooting of a black man in the context of years of
harassment of the black community. She said over-policing of African migrants
was also happening in Melbourne in the form of unnecessary searches and
excessive legal force.

She said tackling underlying causes would be far more effective in preventing
riots. "Training on reducing [these] would actually be more beneficial and less
likely to spark a London riot-type situation than absolute overkill through
doubling the riot squad number," she said.

Fitzroy Legal Centre's Meghan Fitzgerald, who is assisting Occupy Melbourne
members injured in protests, said the move was a "militarisation" that would
fuel a mentality among police that they were there to subdue rather than
protect.

Police Association secretary Greg Davies said police faced more large,
spontaneous and aggressive situations than in the past, with people far more
likely to attack police now.

He welcomed the boost to the riot squad, but said it meant there would be 60
fewer police on the front line of the already understaffed force. "Every asset
has its price," Mr Davies said.

Meanwhile, Mr Lay yesterday announced the appointment of three new deputy
commissioners, heralding what he hopes will be a new era of stability in the
force following the controversial departure of former chief commissioner Simon
Overland.

Lucinda Nolan will oversee recruitment and the replacement of the troubled LEAP
police database, Tim Cartwright will take over traffic and domestic violence and
Graham Ashton will become deputy commissioner for crime.

Mr Lay said he was personally involved in the selections, which follow the
resignation this week of deputy Kieran Walshe after 44 years in the force.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ken Lay (centre) with two of the newly appointed deputy
commissioners, Graham Ashton (left) and Tim Cartwright. PICTURE: CRAIG SILLITOE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             607 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                          December 18, 2013 Wednesday

1984 riots not comparable with post-Godhra violence, says Amartya Sen

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 18 -- Nobel laureate Amartya Sen has said the Gujarat riots of 2002
are not comparable with the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi in 1984, rejecting Infosys
chief N R Narayanamurthy's view that the post-Godhra violence should not stand
in the way of Narendra Modi becoming Prime Minister.

While describing as "absolute shame" the fact that those responsible for the
1984 riots had not been brought to judgement, he sought to differentiate between
the 1984 riots and those that occurred in Gujarat under the watch of Chief
Minister Modi.

Sen argued that Congress leaders, Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi,
who were fighting elections, were not the people responsible for the anti-Sikh
riots. No one had accused them of that, whereas Modi was the Chief Minister when
the riots took place. Moreover, he said that the anti-Sikh riots were not
something that fitted into the Congress philosophy. "There is no philosophy of
killing Sikhs in the Congress," he told.

On the other hand, he said that treatment of Muslims in Gujarat raised the
question as to whether they were treated as second class citizens. "That is a
continuing problem," he said, adding Narayanamurthy was a great friend of his
but he did not agree with him on this issue.

Asked whether the recent Assembly poll results showed that there was a Modi wave
or more of an anti-Congress wave which he was riding, Sen replied, "I would tend
to think that there is an anti-Congress wave perhaps in the sense that the party
is exhausted. "Perhaps, in a sense, one of the big things about Modi is that any
firm leader has an advantage when the leadership problems in Congress remains
unresolved."

Asked if he thought the Congress should formally declare Rahul Gandhi as prime
ministerial candidate, Sen said, "They have to have a game strategy. Election is
not won by promising to win elections. I don't think what the Congress strategy
is at this time in winning the election."

On the rise of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Sen said he welcomed it very much although
he had been skeptical of the likelihood of its performance. "In this case there
are two reasons to be delighted-one that it has happened and second - we Indians
are unduly pessimistic and anything that demonstrates that they have gone for
optimism must be a good thing. So from both points of view I'm delighted."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             608 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

Police to release cost of riot probe soon;
First person to plead guilty to participating in Stanley Cup mayhem handed
17-month sentence

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; INVESTIGATION; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Vancouver Police Department has reversed course and says it will release the
cost of its Stanley Cup riot investigation "in the near future."

Sergeant Howard Chow, a police spokesman, told The Globe and Mail in an e-mail
Monday that the force is still compiling the numbers but will release them soon.
He would not specify when.

The e-mail came shortly after Sgt. Chow told The Globe that the cost would not
be released until the investigation wrapped up. In October, the force said it
expected the probe to stretch for a year or two, with 500 to 700 people charged.
Fifty-seven people have been charged to date.

During a news conference at police headquarters on Feb. 17 - the same day the
first person to plead guilty to participating in the June riot was sentenced -
Chief Jim Chu was asked how much the investigation had cost. He responded: "We
can get that to you. We're compiling it. We'll get that to you."

The riot broke out after the hometown Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup
final to the Boston Bruins and left $3.7-million in damage.

Ryan Dickinson is the only person to be sentenced for taking part in the riot so
far. Mr. Dickinson pleaded guilty last month to one count of participating in a
riot and one count of breach of recognizance for violating a court-ordered
curfew. He was handed a 17-month sentence, minus 31/2 months credit for time
served.

During sentencing, Mr. Dickinson told the court he "got caught up in the moment"
the night of the riot. He used a newspaper box to smash two unmarked police
cars, then threw another box at a store window a few blocks away.

The judge rejected the spur-of-the-moment defence, saying Mr. Dickinson, 20,
chose to participate in the destruction.

A number of rioters have said they, too, got caught up in the chaos.

Camille Cacnio, who is charged with participating in a riot and break and enter,
made that claim in a blog post days after the riot. She admitted to taking two
pairs of men's pants from a store that was already being looted.

Ms. Cacnio had a court hearing Monday, but her lawyer, Jason Tarnow, appeared on
her behalf. While the caught-up-in-the-chaos argument did not work for Mr.
Dickinson, Mr. Tarnow said he still plans to use it.

"Camille Cacnio, it was an instantaneous, 10-second mistake. I think it's
probably much more plausible that a court would accept her being caught up in
the moment," he said.

Mr. Tarnow said he'll oppose any jail time for his client, calling it "totally
inappropriate" for a first-time offender. Ms. Cacnio's case was put over until
next month for arraignment.

Armando Garcia and Chelsea Andrews also appeared in court Monday.

Mr. Garcia is charged with participating in a riot, assault and mischief under
$5,000. Police allege he took part in the beating of a man who tried to prevent
rioters from looting The Bay. He was 19 at the time.

Ms. Andrews, who was 18 at the time of the incident, is charged with
participating in a riot and break and enter. She appeared in front of the judge
without a lawyer and spoke quietly.

Outside court, Ms. Andrews was asked by a reporter whether she had anything to
say or whether, like some of the others alleged to have participated in the riot
, she wanted to apologize to Vancouver residents.

Ms. Andrews said nothing. A female companion shouted "You should apologize" to
the reporter who asked the question.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             609 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                   Daily Examiner (Grafton, New South Wales)

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

MORE ARRESTS FOLLOW RIOT

BYLINE:  DAVID BANCROFT

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 272  words



HIGHLIGHT: Girl, 14, one of three charged over the weekend


A 14-YEAR-OLD girl is one of the latest to be charged following the Valentine's
Day riot in Yamba that left two police officers injured and a police vehicle
worth an estimated $130,000 destroyed.

She was refused bail when she made a brief appearance in the Children's Court in
Grafton yesterday charged with riot-related offences including malicious damage
by fire, incite to assault police, riot and destroy or damage property. She is
due to appear in court again on March 29.

The Yamba teen was one of three riot-related arrests over the weekend.

Matthew John Newell, 18, of Redfern, was also arrested in relation to the
February 14 incident and charged with riot, damage property, and intimidation of
police. He was also charged with custody of knife in a public place.

He was refused bail to appear in court May 3.

And a 21-year-old man was charged with breaching riot-related bail.

Coffs/Clarence crime manager Cameron Lindsay said the arrests were part of a
number in Yamba over the weekend as part of a high-visibility policing operation
code named Vikings.

He said that on Friday night two people were arrested in relation to the riot,
but there was also a person charged with drink driving, another with special
range drink driving and a third with assault.

"We plan to continue this high-visibility policing in Yamba for some time," Insp
Lindsay said.

The charges stem from a wild night in Yamba late on February 13 and early
February 14.

It's alleged that when police went to issue a noise abatement notice, their
police vehicle was pelted with rocks, bottles and pavers. Fifteen people were
arrested on the night, with 13 charged.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDE


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             610 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Police deny any pre-riot warning; 'The VPD had no creditable information . . .
that a riot was about to occur'

BYLINE: Ian Austin, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 414  words


The Vancouver Police Department reacted angrily Thursday to published reports
based on documents released through Freedom of Information that imply police
were warned about the potential for Stanley Cup rioting by the general manager
of the Liquor Control and Licensing Branch.

According to the reports, Karen Ayers wrote of "escalating problems,
intoxication, violence and pre-riotous behaviour" in making the June 12 decision
"to close all liquor stores in the downtown Vancouver core at 4 p.m. tomorrow
evening" (for Game 6 of the Stanley Cup final).

Three days later on June 15, during Game 7, a riot did take place, and ever
since authorities have wrangled about whether or not police knew or should have
known that a riot was a possibility.

"Today, Vancouver police took the unusual step of issuing a formal statement to
clarify a story that is being fed by wrong information and misguided
conclusions," the VPD said in a statement entitled, Get The Facts Straight.

"Reports that VPD received information from the Liquor Control and Licensing
Board that there would be a riot are simply wrong and untrue. The reports are
based on a Freedom of Information request that retrieved information from the
LCLB concerning liquor store closures on the day of the last game of the Stanley
Cup final.

"Stories are still being generated that say the VPD knew a riot was coming
because the LCLB told them. This is absolutely false."

The unsigned police statement - emailed out to media by the VPD media liaison -
appears to reflect the frustration the department is feeling after months of
public questioning of police intelligence.

"As difficult as it may be for some to hear, the VPD had no creditable
information from anyone that a riot was about to occur," it reads.

"If anyone in the media had information to that effect we would welcome them to
come forward and explain why they never shared it."

On one hand, the VPD applauds the majority of the media coverage.

"Most of the reporting on the riot and the aftermath has been accurate and
insightful," it reads.

But slipped into the last paragraph of the police statement comes the highly
debatable assertion that reporters somehow incited the riot.

"We are concerned about stories created that choose to inflame the rhetoric
about the riot based on wrong information, as we were originally concerned by
stories and reporters who beat the drum most loudly inciting crowds to gather in
the first place."

iaustin@theprovince.com

twitter.com/ianaustin007

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne - PNG; Vancouver police have issued a statement saying that
most of the reporting about the June 15 Stanley Cupfinal, Game 7 riot has been
accurate, but took offence at some stories.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             611 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Reading the Riots: Gangs: The four-day truce: how gangs put hostilities aside
during the riots: Rioters contradict Tory rhetoric with claims rivals united to
hit back at a common enemy - the authorities

BYLINE: Tim Newburn Alexandra Topping Ben Ferguson

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1521 words


Amid the soul-searching, blame and accusations that followed five days of
destruction and looting in the most serious UK riots seen in a generation, one
reason for the unrest could frequently be heard. Gangs had played an important
role, it was argued, rallying troops and leading the violence that ripped
through England's inner cities.

That rhetoric had to be toned down as revised police intelligence showed gangs
played a smaller part. Now the Reading the Riots project can reveal how, in
repeated interviews about their experience of the riots, respondents said that
the few gang members who were present during the August disturbances behaved in
an entirely atypical manner for the duration of the unrest.

Most unusually, for four nights in August, gangs suspended any ordinary
hostilities between each other to focus on other targets.

The majority of those who took part, from London to Liverpool, Manchester to
Birmingham, denied that gangs had caused or exacerbated the unrest, arguing
instead that for the short period when England was in the grip of the riots
there had been a truce.

Gang members came together to capitalise on what they saw as an economic
opportunity, or to hit back at "the authorities", whether the government or
police.

Asked if gangs were involved in the disturbances, the response of one
24-year-old from Bermondsey was typical. "That's absolute bullshit," he said,
adding that the gang members he knew did not venture into the fray.

"When I did speak to a few gang members, they was like, I'm not even going out
like, so I don't think it was a gang thing. Definitely not a gang thing."

A 21-year-old man from Salford had his own theory about why gangs had been
identified as a key feature of the riots. "The government needed someone to
blame and (put) everything together under 'gangs'," he said. "I don't believe
there was much planned gangland activity. I believe there was a lot of angry,
very working-class, disillusioned young men that realised: hang on a minute,
it's going off."

In its initial response to the riots the government frequently pointed to the
problem of gangs as a factor in the riots. Senior police officers briefed the
prime minister that gang leaders had orchestrated the second and third days of
the disturbances.

In parliament, David Cameron told MPs that "gangs were at the heart of the
protests and have been behind the co-ordinated attacks". At the Conservative
party conference in September, Iain Duncan Smith said gangs had played a
"significant part" in the riots, and he and the home secretary, Theresa May,
were subsequently asked to work with Bill Bratton, former commissioner of the
New York police department, to develop an anti-gangs strategy. The "war on
gangs" became the centrepiece of the coalition government's response to the
riots.

Before too long, a different picture emerged. After initially claiming that as
many as 28% of those arrested in London were gang members, the Metropolitan
police later revised the figure to 19%, a figure that dropped to 13%
countrywide.

Although the crude numbers by themselves do not indicate with any certainty what
the role of gangs was in the disturbances, the changing police estimates
prompted leading politicians to downplay their earlier suggestion that gang
members had played a pivotal role in the riots.

Reading the Riots suggests they were right to do so. Gang members were certainly
present in many of the disturbances. In some cases they may have played an
important role, though there is little indication that they were responsible for
orchestrating the riots.

Most importantly, the suggestion that 13% of people involved in riots were gang
members - based on "intelligence" from those arrested - is almost certainly an
overestimation. Rioters said they only occasionally saw people involved who they
knew to be affiliated to gangs; in the main, respondents were struck by the
breadth of people from all parts of their community who joined together.

That sense of unity also affected the small numbers of gangs involved. They
suspended rivalries for the duration of the disturbances. For those used to
local hostilities - sometimes defined by postcode - it was an unprecedented
sight. "You saw enemies become friends just for one day," said one rioter. "On
that day all gangs are the same, are together," said another.

A 25-year-old man from Tottenham, who watched the peaceful protest at the death
of Mark Duggan descend into violence, said gang members were present, but not
controlling the situation. "The fact that they're members of enemy gangs and
there's no animosity shows you that it wasn't a gang-orchestrated activity as
many people like to perpetuate," he said.

Some respondents spoke knowledgeably about gangs, as a real and daily presence
in their lives, but repeatedly expressed surprise, and often delight, that
during the riots the postcode warfare melted away.

The irony did not escape some of those involved. "You know it was the one time
everyone was helping each other out. It had to be robbing Foot Locker!" said one
17-year-old who looted in Brixton. "I saw people from Brixton, different areas
who would have literally hated each other but they was literally sticking
together when they was going in there, like holding the doors for each other."

A 26-year-old Croydon man described seeing a crowd of young men from miles away
arrive in the area. "These youths actually came all the way from New Cross," he
said. He described his feelings as they got involved. "'I know that we are
beefing, yeah, but for this moment in time, let's eat together.' Let me
elaborate. Eating means, let's go and take advantage of this situation."

An 18-year-old from Tuebrook described a similar atmosphere in Liverpool. "Like
considering, if I was out on the road and I's seen another clique, or whatever .
. . they'd be looking at me and that, but . . . it weren't like that. It was
just was friendly, everyone was getting on and was on the same level, against
Merseyside police or against higher elements or whatever you want to call it."

Similarly, in Birmingham, one man in his 20s, said it was "us, the youth and the
rioters against the police". He said: "I seen lads from different gangs, from
different sides of Birmingham, on a normal street out there they'd be shooting
each other, like, without a doubt, but there was both stood around the same area
like, all in black, paying no attention . . . I was happy that, to see them walk
past, they didn't start no trouble or nothing."

Others, like a 22-year-old man from Stockwell, relished the moment. He said: "I
couldn't believe and I was happy that there was actually standing together and I
was thinking, why would it cause something like this for these people to get
together?"

A sense of a common enemy, a common cause, brought members of gangs from
different territories - gangs partly defined by their defence of territory and
hostility to those from other turfs - to co-operate for as long as the
disturbances lasted.

According to one 18-year-old from north London, gangs worked together, warning
each other when police were on the scene and totally changing their normal modes
of interaction.

"I can't go through certain ends and just walk through like it's nothing," he
said. "But because that was going on no one was really concentrating too tough
who's going through the ends, who's that or where this persons that's from, they
just concentrating on the feds, that's all. Unity, yeah, that's what I'd call
it, unity . . . It brought unity to certain classes . . . so there was a lot of
unity involved in the riots . . . that's the only good thing I saw."

Some interviewees suggested that while they did not believe gangs were
controlling the riots, their ability to provide numbers and to organise had
played a part in how elements of the riots developed.

A handful of respondents said the "unity" - a word cited in dozens of interviews
- and perceived collective strength led to improved relations in the week after
the riots. In Birmingham, a black rioter said he was more likely to speak to
Asian youths since the riots, while in south London there were sightings of
rival gang members talking together at the same house party.

But others said the truce was short-lived. One 15-year-old girl from Clapham
Common said everything changed during the riots. "You know how you get gang
rivalry? Everything stopped that night," she said. She spoke of "gangs that
actually hated each other and they was just together, like beef (rivalry)
stopped, basically". She added: "Fights and everything just stopped."

But, she said, it soon became clear it would not last. Even as the debris of the
riots was being cleaned up, the problems that normally beset them were back.
"People see it as just a day," she said. "There's no bond between anyone.
Everyone's gone back to the same as it used to be. There's not really a bond.
Not a bond at all."

Captions:

A hooded youngster walking past a burning van in Hackney, London, on 8 August.
Many of the rioters said gangs were not behind the unrest that swept through
English cities Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             612 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday
                                  City Edition

Church pays tribute to race riot survivors during observance

BYLINE: Carla Hinton, Religion Editor

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 687 words


In 1921, Wess Young, Hazel Jones and Julius Warren Scott were children living in
Tulsa's Greenwood District known as "Black Wall Street."

They were much like some of the young people they met during a recent event at
Northeast Church of Christ - before tragedy struck, taking their innocence away
with ropes, fire and bullets.

Historical accounts differ about the infamous Tulsa race riot of 1921, in which
a white mob burned 35 square blocks in the Greenwood District of Tulsa after a
black deliveryman was accused of assaulting a white woman in an elevator and
arrested. By some accounts, the death toll was 37, but other estimates have been
as high as 300. Many people were injured in the riot. A 1921 grand jury
exonerated whites for the destruction and blamed black citizenry.

Young, Jones and Scott were among the guests of honor during Northeast Church of
Christ's Feb. 23 reception, part of the church's black history observance. Other
riot survivors on hand included John Melvin Alexander, Thelma Knight and James
Stewart. The church, 4817 Martin Luther King Ave., held a weeklong schedule of
activities around the theme "Tribute to the Black Renaissance: Honoring the
Survivors of the 1921 Tulsa Race War."

As survivors of the unthinkable, the men and women deserve to be applauded, said
A.C. Christman, the church's assistant minister. That is why the church spent
almost a year creating many activities designed to highlight the riot and the
people who walked away from it.

"It's good sometimes to touch history, rather than hear it," Christman said.

In his keynote speech at the reception, Cincinnati, Ohio, author James Clingman
reminded those gathered that they probably did not learn about the riot in
history books. That's all the more reason to pay homage to the survivors, he
said.

"Even though you saw your relatives being shot down, rounded up, strung up and
burned up, you have prevailed because your indomitable spirit has had you rise
up and led you to this place," Clingman told the survivors.

"You are a testimony to the indomitable spirit of black people. May God continue
to bless you."

Christman noted that though his family had been friends with Jones for years, he
never knew she was a race riot survivor until she walked into the church for the
recent celebratory activities.

"Because of the pain and the trauma, their parents told them not to talk about
it. So they didn't," he said. Christman marveled that though she was only about
3 or 4 years old at the time, Jones could recall various images of the riot,
like crosses burning on Reservoir Hill, the once whites-only north Tulsa
neighborhood.

When the survivors were given an opportunity to speak, Young, 90, proved to be
the most talkative.

"Always remember that blacks have contributed to the world, but there was always
somebody to step on us and keep us from getting what we deserved," Young said.

"We are survivors. Don't let nobody tell you we are anything else."

Other activities held as part of the church's observance included a student art
and essay showcase and silent auction, with auction proceeds benefiting Tulsa's
Greenwood Cultural Center. Winners of the essay contest won contributions to a
college savings plan.

A black poetry night was also held, plus a community health fair. On one
evening, visitors watched a documentary about the Tulsa race riot, and on
another evening, they heard about the incident through a panel discussion
featuring historians and educators.

A play about the riot, "Breaking the Eraser," helped conclude the history
observance.

Church member Rosalyn Crenshaw said she coordinated the week with the help of
young college students involved with the church's Northeast College Students
Network.

Christman said the Black History events are in keeping with Northeast Church of
Christ's commitment to the community it serves.

"We are in a traditionally black community, and we have a purpose here. We have
a great vision plan, and all of that connects," he said.

"This event added to lives by just being able to look in the faces of history."

Carla Hinton:  475-3480,  chinton@oklahoman.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo 1: Tulsa race riot survivor Wess H. Young, 90, talks to, from
left, Drake Perry, 10, Dru Perry, 6 and Amber Holt, 8, during a reception at the
Northeast Church of Christ at Langston University's Oklahoma City campus. The
reception was part of the church's "Tribute to the Black Renaissance," a
weeklong black history observance focusing on the Tulsa race riot of 1921.
Photo 2: Alexus Stephens, 7, talks to Tulsa race riot survivor Julius Warren
Scott, 85, during a reception honoring the survivors of the infamous 1921 riot
at Northeast Church of Christ at Langston University's Oklahoma City campus. -
PHOTOS BY NATE BILLINGS, THE OKLAHOMAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             613 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             March 3, 2007 Saturday
                                  City Edition

Church pays tribute to race riot survivors during observance

BYLINE: Carla Hinton, Religion Editor

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 687 words


In 1921, Wess Young, Hazel Jones and Julius Warren Scott were children living in
Tulsa's Greenwood District known as "Black Wall Street."

They were much like some of the young people they met during a recent event at
Northeast Church of Christ - before tragedy struck, taking their innocence away
with ropes, fire and bullets.

Historical accounts differ about the infamous Tulsa race riot of 1921, in which
a white mob burned 35 square blocks in the Greenwood District of Tulsa after a
black deliveryman was accused of assaulting a white woman in an elevator and
arrested. By some accounts, the death toll was 37, but other estimates have been
as high as 300. Many people were injured in the riot. A 1921 grand jury
exonerated whites for the destruction and blamed black citizenry.

Young, Jones and Scott were among the guests of honor during Northeast Church of
Christ's Feb. 23 reception, part of the church's black history observance. Other
riot survivors on hand included John Melvin Alexander, Thelma Knight and James
Stewart. The church, 4817 Martin Luther King Ave., held a weeklong schedule of
activities around the theme "Tribute to the Black Renaissance: Honoring the
Survivors of the 1921 Tulsa Race War."

As survivors of the unthinkable, the men and women deserve to be applauded, said
A.C. Christman, the church's assistant minister. That is why the church spent
almost a year creating many activities designed to highlight the riot and the
people who walked away from it.

"It's good sometimes to touch history, rather than hear it," Christman said.

In his keynote speech at the reception, Cincinnati, Ohio, author James Clingman
reminded those gathered that they probably did not learn about the riot in
history books. That's all the more reason to pay homage to the survivors, he
said.

"Even though you saw your relatives being shot down, rounded up, strung up and
burned up, you have prevailed because your indomitable spirit has had you rise
up and led you to this place," Clingman told the survivors.

"You are a testimony to the indomitable spirit of black people. May God continue
to bless you."

Christman noted that though his family had been friends with Jones for years, he
never knew she was a race riot survivor until she walked into the church for the
recent celebratory activities.

"Because of the pain and the trauma, their parents told them not to talk about
it. So they didn't," he said. Christman marveled that though she was only about
3 or 4 years old at the time, Jones could recall various images of the riot,
like crosses burning on Reservoir Hill, the once whites-only north Tulsa
neighborhood.

When the survivors were given an opportunity to speak, Young, 90, proved to be
the most talkative.

"Always remember that blacks have contributed to the world, but there was always
somebody to step on us and keep us from getting what we deserved," Young said.

"We are survivors. Don't let nobody tell you we are anything else."

Other activities held as part of the church's observance included a student art
and essay showcase and silent auction, with auction proceeds benefiting Tulsa's
Greenwood Cultural Center. Winners of the essay contest won contributions to a
college savings plan.

A black poetry night was also held, plus a community health fair. On one
evening, visitors watched a documentary about the Tulsa race riot, and on
another evening, they heard about the incident through a panel discussion
featuring historians and educators.

A play about the riot, "Breaking the Eraser," helped conclude the history
observance.

Church member Rosalyn Crenshaw said she coordinated the week with the help of
young college students involved with the church's Northeast College Students
Network.

Christman said the Black History events are in keeping with Northeast Church of
Christ's commitment to the community it serves.

"We are in a traditionally black community, and we have a purpose here. We have
a great vision plan, and all of that connects," he said.

"This event added to lives by just being able to look in the faces of history."

Carla Hinton:  475-3480,  chinton@oklahoman.com

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo 1: Tulsa race riot survivor Wess H. Young, 90, talks to, from
left, Drake Perry, 10, Dru Perry, 6 and Amber Holt, 8, during a reception at the
Northeast Church of Christ at Langston University's Oklahoma City campus. The
reception was part of the church's "Tribute to the Black Renaissance," a
weeklong black history observance focusing on the Tulsa race riot of 1921.
Photo 2: Alexus Stephens, 7, talks to Tulsa race riot survivor Julius Warren
Scott, 85, during a reception honoring the survivors of the infamous 1921 riot
at Northeast Church of Christ at Langston University's Oklahoma City campus. -
PHOTOS BY NATE BILLINGS, THE OKLAHOMAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             614 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                       July 17, 1992, Friday, 1* EDITION

Extra police on duty as city hopes there won't be repeat of riot

BYLINE: STEWART BELL; VANSUN

SECTION:  Pg. B8

LENGTH: 571 words

DATELINE: Penticton


The main street of this sun-baked Okanagan city looks as sleepy as ever. There
are no bars on the shop windows, no security guards watching over peoples'
shoulders and no boarded-up store fronts.

It's almost as if the riot that damaged part of the city's downtown during last
summer's Peach Festival never happened.

"I don't think anybody around here is expecting any trouble," said Bev
Rischmueller, owner of The California Connection, a beach shop that was smashed
and looted in last year's riot.

"I think the police have a handle on it," she said.

But the appearance of indifference is deceptive. The city and the RCMP are in
fact preparing for the worst.

Roadblocks were to be set up today - the first day of the 10-day festival - at
both ends of the city to watch for liquor violations and to monitor who is
coming in to the city. Extra police are being brought in during the weekends and
others in nearby communities are on call.

"This year we recognize that it could be a problem and we've taken some more
concrete steps to deal with it," said Coun. Mick Kelly, who is acting mayor
while Jake Kimberley is on holiday.

Those steps include two bylaws, both passed in May, one of which bans open
liquor in public and the other, which prohibits people from riding in the back
of pickup trucks. The city has also launched a "Be A Good Sport" campaign
designed to discourage people from causing trouble.

Kelly believes last year's riot was a unique incident, caused by circumstances
that saw hundreds of youths gathering at the lakeshore with nothing to do.
Youths started throwing rocks at police and eventually a mob formed that swept
down the main street.

Police vehicles were smashed and overturned and several officers were injured.
Damage from the riot was estimated at $ 190,000.

Five youths and seven adults have been convicted of charges stemming from the
riot and face sentences of up to two years in jail. One riot participant who was
sentenced to 18 months in jail, 20-year-old Barry McCabe of Kelowna, is also
currently being tried for the murder of his mother.

The riot, and similar less serious incidents in previous years in the Okanagan,
prompted the provincial government to set up a committee on public order last
August. The committee's report, released in April, said that municipalities
should be held financially responsible for the damage and policing costs arising
from events they stage. This has made municipal officials throughout the
province more cautious about their summer festivals.

Some locals feel the chances of a repeat riot are real.

Denise Arthurs, 17, who works at a beach concession stand that was destroyed in
the 1991 riot, said she has talked to some youths who are anxious to see a
repeat of last year's events.

People in Vancouver have been spotted wearing T-shirts with the inscription:
Penticton Riot 92.

"All we can do is hope for the best," Glen Mills, sales manager at Muntz stereo
shop, said.

The city and police are aware of the potential for attracting people looking for
a fight and for that reason will not reveal the number of extra police being
brought in during the festival.

"Unfortunately, we aren't disclosing the numbers, only because they are
something the RCMP and the city council feel are irrelevant. And because if you
start saying there are 200 or 300 it starts turning into a challenge situation,"
said Kelly.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STEVE BOSCH/ WARY BUT HOPEFUL, Glen Mills, sales manager at Muntz
stereo shop in Penticton, says he is hoping for the best. His store was among
those trashed in last year's riot. (92-5546)

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             615 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            June 26, 2014, Thursday

Prison training should stress treatment of inmates over quelling riots

BYLINE: Stephen W. Logan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P6A

LENGTH: 734 words


As a recently retired West Virginia correctional educator, I wish to take issue
with Mark. W. Hale's commentary, "Mock riot saves lives.

First, public injury and death are infinitely more likely in public school
shootings than would ever be the case in a prison riot. Case in point: Appearing
in the June 12, 2014, Gazette is a headline: "Police: Shooter at Oregon school
carried assault rifle, extra ammo. Moreover, irrespective of these "ever so
common public school shootings, in my wildest imagination, I cannot fathom how a
riot behind prison fencing endangers the public - correctional officers, yes;
staff, yes; but the public? No conceivable way. Escape attempts threaten the
public; prison riots do not. They are not in any manner similar, either in cause
or in consequences.

Second, and probably my most important point is that riots do not occur without
provocation. A quasi-paramilitary environment is, by its very nature, not
nurturing. Moreover, attitudes "speak louder than uniforms. Contemptuous
attitudes create simmering resentments; kindness defuses anger.

I have found over my 11 years of teaching at a West Virginia maximum security
prison the prevention of inmates' violent attacks against staff or against
anyone else is directly related to how the inmates are treated. (Punishment over
rehabilitation will not engender prison safety). Everyone is kept safe by the
avoidance of riots, not the quelling of riots. How inmates are treated during
their incarceration is key.

Look at prison riot history, such as the Sept. 13, 1971, uprising at Attica
Correctional Facility in Western New York. An examination of this riot reveals
that Attica prisoners deeply resented the Attica Correctional Facility warden.
He was accused by his own guards of abuse - alleging living and sleeping
conditions were intolerable. Similarly, if conditions go unaddressed in West
Virginia facilities, then the problem is self-evident. Substandard health care,
bad food, exploitive store pricing, contemptuous and cruel personnel are a
recipe for explosive resentment and anger - prisoners are human beings, after
all.

Beyond that - there's the less-than-perfect justice system that consigned the
inmates to their fate. Many have been unjustly sentenced for crimes they did not
commit (witness the many cases of incarcerated prisoners eventually deemed
innocent through DNA testings). And while there are, indeed, many who've been
justly sentenced, respectful attitudes and decent treatment play greater roles
in securing prison safety than do riot quelling training and technologies. This
is not to imply there should be no training. To the contrary, not every
circumstance of uprising is predictable or avoidable, but I question a combat
mentality where each and every year " ... law enforcement personnel from around
the country ... respond to the mock riot event, " ... training exercises hosted
since 1997 by the West Virginia Department of Military Affairs and Public
Safety, the West Virginia Division of Corrections Training Foundation.

Rather than each year using taxpayer money for " ... hundreds of security staff
from across the globe traveling to the decommissioned West Virginia State
Penitentiary in Moundsville to participate ... , would not training preparation
be adequate if less frequent events were held? Could not a greater emphasis in
training be placed on inmate treatment to avoid uprisings, rather than assuming
the status quo mentality expressed by Hale to " ... ensure that offenders remain
appropriately incarcerated and managed. These are society's "forgotten people;
many have extraordinary talents. With emphasis on rehabilitation rather than on
punishment, we could someday have law-abiding, employable, tax-paying citizens
contributing to the general welfare rather than draining the state's budget
through incarceration. (Some estimate the cost of a single inmate exceeds the
annual cost of a Harvard University education.) A police force preparation
mentality has no correlation to the task of keeping society safe. Cannot we do
better than lock offenders away with the mindset of "throwing away the key?

Stephen W. Logan was the Business Education/Computer Education teacher at the
Mount Olive Correctional Complex from 2003-14, and was the Correctional
Educator's Teacher of the Year (2008-09) in Region 2, including West Virginia,
Virginia, Maryland, Delaware and Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Charleston Newspapers


                             616 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             October 9, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

Police set to charge 120 prisoners over Ravenhall riots;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Cameron Houston, Chris Vedelago

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 721 words


A police taskforce investigating the riot at the Metropolitan Remand Centre is
expected to charge 120 inmates with a range of offences, while a separate
investigation by former police chief commissioner Kieran Walshe has identified a
string of intelligence failings and warnings that went unheeded.

The failure to respond to security breaches in the weeks before the uprising is
expected to put further pressure on Corrections Commissioner Jan Shuard and
remand centre general manager Melissa Westin, with Mr Walshe's report due by
December.

Fairfax Media can reveal the independent investigation by Mr Walshe has been
told senior prison officials ignored or underplayed a series of warnings,
including evidence that inmates made substantial preparations to stage a major
disturbance ahead of the July 1 total smoking ban.

This included a search in early June uncovering a stash of knives and balaclavas
in the facility. Security lapses had also allowed inmates to make a
drill-fitting that was used to remove cell doors.

Inmates were also observed deliberately kicking footballs into internal fences
in what appeared to be a test of their strength or whether they were
electrified.

Investigators have been told that tensions inside the prison escalated
dramatically three days before the riot on June 30, when it was discovered that
a small group of prisoners were still being given tobacco, despite a strict ban
on cigarette sales that began on June 15, a fortnight before the riot.

It is alleged that some remand centre managers were aware that tobacco was being
used to placate a group of inmates who had threatened to cause unrest at the
Ravenhall facility.

Prison sources have said the move was sanctioned by management to "keep the
peace", but had the opposite effect of infuriating other prisoners when it
became widely known.

At the time, pouches of tobacco stockpiled by inmates were fetching $350 each.
Stand-overs and assaults were also increasing as prisoners fought over the
dwindling supply.

On the afternoon of June 30 - less than a day before the total smoking ban was
implemented - inmates inside the remand centre began a series of co-ordinated
disturbances that culminated in a fully fledged riot and the evacuation of the
prison by guards and staff.

Inmates used the custom-made drill to remove doors protecting a control room
where they were believed to have obtained a master key that gave them
wide-ranging access within the facility.

Protective clothing - including gas masks - were seized by inmates which
undermined the effectiveness of tear gas used by riot officers.

Staff lockers containing wallets and other personal items were also looted, with
a threat left scrawled on a wall that named an individual guard and stated his
home address. The state government has since paid for the guard and his family
to be permanently relocated.

More than 300 prisoners were eventually freed to roam the grounds, tearing down
internal fences, destroying documents and equipment, and setting fires. A number
of inmates were also reportedly dragged from their cells when they refused to
participate in the riot.

A spokesman for Corrections Victoria denied most of the claims that have been
made to investigators about what occurred in the lead-up to and in the opening
hours of the riot. "Corrections Victoria does not comment on security or
operational issues," he said.

It took hundreds of heavily armed police and guards to end the 15-hour riot,
which caused an estimated $25 million in damage.

Taskforce Gallium was set up by Victoria Police in the wake of the riot and is
understood to have identified 120 inmates who played a role in the uprising and
now face charges.

The remand centre remains in lockdown more than three months after the riot,
with prisoners confined to their cells for 23 hours a day.

The situation is raising the ire of judges and magistrates, who are facing
increasing calls from the legal community to provide sentencing discounts for
offenders experiencing these conditions despite having nothing to do with the
riot.

Minister for Corrections Wade Noonan said the "criminal damage" done during the
riot was "unacceptable", but it would be inappropriate to comment as the police
investigation was still was ongoing.

"We want to get to the bottom of what occurred so that it never happens again,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Victoria Police Special Operations Group outside Ravenhall
on June 30. Right, an aerial video grab of the rioters. Photos: Pat Scala, ABC
News 24

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             617 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 11, 1995, Sunday

POLICE PETROL BOMBED IN NEW CITY RIOT;
ASIAN YOUTHS BATTLE WITH RIOT POLICE IN BRADFORD RIOT

BYLINE: Paul Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 360 words


PETROL bombs and bricks were hurled last night as gangs of youths battled police
again in Bradford.

At least three PCs were injured as up to 1,000 Asian youths confronted 600 riot
police. Shops were looted and a pub was attacked as police reported "a great
many arrests".

The new riots flared despite police and Asian community chiefs calling for calm
following riots in the West Yorks city on Friday.

Trouble erupted on the streets in the Manningham area, scene of riots 24 hours
earlier.

Friday's riot started when police tried to arrest two Asian youths. Cars were
torched, burning road blocks were set up and police were pelted with bricks and
bottles. Rampaging youths smashed windows and looted shops.  Three PCs were hurt
and 10 police vehicles were damaged.

Rioters claimed a girl carrying a baby had been hit and had her clothes torn by
a PC.

Insp Sarah Sidney said: "Despite allegations that an officer hit the girl I
understand he didn't even touch her. This has been blown up out of all
proportion."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.


                             618 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                          September 19, 2013 Thursday

CM sees plot behind UP riots

LENGTH: 677 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Sept. 19 -- B laming Opposition parties for riots in Muzaffarnagar that
took 49 lives, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said that this violence was a
'political conspiracy' aimed to divide the society on religious lines.

Replying to a debate on the Muzaffarnagar riots in the UP Assembly, Yadav said
his Government would not spare anyone found guilty in perpetrating the crime.
"All political parties want peace in the State and the Government too wants it.
It was not a riot but a political conspiracy to divide the two religious
communities for their own vested interest," he said.

Narrating recent controversy over Mahakaleshwar Temple in Jhansi, the CM said
that Hindu and Muslims were staying inside the temple for past several decades
but suddenly the BJP raised the issue and its MP Yogi Adityanath launched an
agitation there to remove the Muslims. "Such act of the BJP is condemnable and
they are trying to divide the society on the name of Hindu and Muslims," he
said.

Yadav also alleged that uploading controversial videos and photographs on
YouTube and circulation of MMS and SMS were created tension in the society. He
also announced that the Government was investigating the role of the officials,
whose laxity led to the violence.

"All such officials would be taken to task," he said.

Even Parliamentary Affairs Minister Azam Khan said no Government wants violence
in its regime because strife destroys human relations. "Law will take its course
in dealing with the people who are responsible for riots but there cannot be any
law for wolves. We are human being and should follow the law of the land," Azam
Khan said.

The 30 minute speech of Azam Khan was full of rhetoric but lacked substance. He
dwelled on human values and the negative effects violence has on human relations
but refused to speak on the Government strategy to stop riots in future or what
action the Government has taken against the rioters. He got emotional on
speaking about the killings of people - both Muslim and Hindus - in
Muzaffarnagar, but was silent on the compensation the Government would extend to
the families who lost their loved ones in the riot.

"Who is killed in these riots? It is the poor. Not a single rich or powerful has
been killed in these riots. Muslims are in minority in western Uttar Pradesh and
the way majority treated them does not bring laurels to Hindus residing in that
part of the State," he said. Earlier, the Opposition led by BJP members tore
into the Government claims of "all is well" in Muzaffarnagar and said the riots
were State sponsored. They also demanded increase in compensation for the family
members of those killed in riot and action against the culprits.

The debate was initiated by Leader of Opposition Swami Prasad Maurya who
questioned as why Uttar Pradesh becomes a battle field when the Samajwadi Party
comes to power. He demanded resignation of the Chief Minister for his failure to
restore peace in Mzaffarnagar.

BJP Legislature leader Hukum Singh, against whom an FIR has been lodged for
inciting communal hatred, said that if the Government wanted the situation could
have been brought under control. "There were a series of meetings and
mahapanchayats and district administration did not take action. It waited for
the situation to go out of hands," he said.

Pramod Tiwari (Congress) said that there was an attempt to make UP a second
Gujarat and the State Government should not allow this to happen. Uma Bharti
(BJP) who attended the House for the first time said parties should detest from
doing politics on dead bodies. Hitting out at the Samajwadi Party Government,
she said it is probably the first Government that has lost the faith of people
in such a short span of time.

"The guilty should be punished but no action should be taken against the
innocent," she said. Members from the ruling party also spoke on the occasion.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             619 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

RIOTING BY ALBANIAN NATIONISTS HAS LEFT SCARS IN YUGOSLAV REGION

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Yugoslavia, Oct. 18


Tension has eased in this capital and other parts of the troubled southern
Yugoslav province of Kosovo, where Albanian nationalist riots left nine people
dead and scores injured last spring.

Six months after the riots, movie theaters and discotheques have opened again,
policemen who patrol the streets at night are not as heavily armed, and Pristina
University, where the riots started, has reopened.

But officials say it will be a long time before the situation is normal in the
province, which is Yugoslavia's poorest and is populated mainly by people of
Albanian descent.

Albanian nationalist slogans and underground activities are still in evidence in
Kosovo. Foreigners are not allowed in the province without a special permit, and
Serbs and other non-Albanian people continue to move to other parts of the
country.

'Mistrust Has Increased'

''Unhealthy Albanian nationalism has been tolerated by the Kosovo Communist
Party and Government leadership for a long time,'' a resident of Pristina said.
''Animosities between majority Albanians and minority Serbs and Montenegrins
have deepened and mistrust has increased after the riots.''

Purges of Government and Communist Party ranks since the riots have included the
ousting of the Kosovo party chief, Mahmut Bakali, and the provincial president,
Dzavid Nimani.

More than 300 people, mainly ethnic Albanian students, workers and farmers, were
sentenced to jail terms of up to 15 years for organizing the riots and for
membership in clandestine organizations sympathizing with neighboring Albania.

''The situation is now under control,'' a member of the new Kosovo leadership,
Azem Vlasi, said. ''We have dealt with the organizers of the riots, but
nationalism is a state of mind that requires a longlasting struggle.''

He said the leadership planned a long campaign to counter ''reactionary
nationalist ideology.''

Emergency Was Declared

Though surprised by the riots, Yugoslav authorities moved quickly.  Special
police and army units were flown to Kosovo in early April, and a state of
emergency, the first since World War II, was declared in the province.

The authorities described the riots as counterrevolutionary and separatist,
aimed at breaking up the multinational Yugoslav federation. They accused the
Kosovo leadership of opportunism and of tolerating nationalism and bureaucratic
attitudes that hurt social and economic development in the province.

Belgrade also accused Albania of fomenting the riots. Albania denied the charges
and in turn accused Belgrade of neglect and brutality toward Albanians living in
Yugoslavia.

''Any disturbances in Yugoslavia suit Albania because Tirana is in a permanent
state of fear of a possible outside influence on that last bastion of
Stalinism,'' Mr. Vlasi said.

The new provincial leaders acknowledge that their predecessors made mistakes in
social and economic policy and promise to improve the situation.

Authorities at Pristina University said they were confident the riots would not
be repeated. They said that 60 students and five professors had been dismissed
for involvement in the riots and that discussions about the responsibility of at
least 150 others were under way.

Many people, including some officials, voiced concern about the harsh sentences
imposed, particularly on young people, at the trials last summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                             620 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Verdict does not imply Modi govt complicity in riots: BJP

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 136  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Asserting that all riots were "condemnable", the BJP Wednesday sought to reject
allegations of Narendra Modi government's complicity in the 2002 Gujarat riots
despite a local court convicting a former state minister in the Naroda Patiya
case.

"I do not think so," said BJP spokesman Prakash Javadekar when asked if the
conviction of Maya Kodnani indicated BJP's complicity.

The party said it had always deplored riots. "Whether it is 1984 anti-Sikh riots
, or riots in Maharashtra, Assam or Gujarat, the BJP has always maintained that
riots are not only unfortunate and bad but also condemnable beyond doubt. We
always condemned riots anywhere," Javadekar said.

He, however, refrained from outlining the BJP's view against Kodnani, who was an
MLA at the time of the riots and later served as a minister in Modi government.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             621 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 17, 2007 Friday

North Toledo riot's last defendant receives probation: Summers' sentence
includes work release

BYLINE: Erica Blake, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 686 words


Aug. 17--A day before members of a neo-Nazi group had planned a possible return
to Toledo, the last defendant arrested nearly two years ago during a North
Toledo riot appeared for the last time in court.

Donnell Summers, 27, was sentenced to three months work-release and three years
probation.

Initially charged with aggravated riot, he entered a plea July 16 under the
Alford doctrine to a lesser, misdemeanor riot charge.

Mr. Summers was one of 120 people arrested Oct. 15, 2005, when a scheduled march
by the National Socialist Movement through a North Toledo neighborhood incited a
riot during which mobs attacked emergency workers, burned down a bar, and looted
two convenience stores.

Mr. Summers said yesterday that he went to the site of the planned march that
Saturday, but denied accusations that he threw rocks or punched a police horse.

He added that he would have fought the charge further, but a witness who was
going to say he did nothing decided not to testify on his behalf.

"I wasn't rioting. I was just a bystander," he said.

Mr. Summers, on whom police found a small knife and a stick studded with razor
blades when he was arrested, earlier this year had pleaded no contest to the
aggravated riot charge.

But Mr. Summers withdrew his plea on his scheduled sentencing day and demanded a
jury trial.

He said yesterday he decided to fight the felony charge because he did not
believe he deserved it.

Compared with simple riot, aggravated riot carries an additional element of
committing an offense of violence, something Mr. Summers denied doing.

In an Alford plea, a defendant maintains innocence or does not admit to
committing a crime, but still pleads guilty because he decides it is in his best
interest to do so.

The court treats it the same as a guilty plea.

Judge Charles Doneghy, who sentenced Mr. Summers, noted the length of time Mr.
Summers had been in the judicial system, over which Mr. Summers also voiced his
own frustration.

Mr. Summers said after sentencing that he walked the 10 minutes from his home to
where the rally was scheduled to be held because he was curious.

He added that he would show support for his neighborhood again if the neo-Nazis
returned.

"They told me it was supposed to be a nonviolent protest, but you can't walk
down the street preaching hate," he said. "You make an impact by numbers. I just
wanted to be heard by going down there."

City officials ordered the march canceled after angry crowds began gathering
along its proposed route, but a riot erupted anyway.

Mr. Summers said he was cleared of the aggravated riot charge because there was
no proof that he was violent.

He said he was carrying weapons that day to protect himself during his walk home
through dangerous neighborhoods.

Assistant County Prosecutor Jim Vail said at Mr. Summers' pleading that the
charge was amended to a misdemeanor because time had passed and memories lapsed.

Mr. Summers said that while he feels his arrest was wrong, he was vindicated of
the original charge.

"I got a victory because they didn't get me on the bogus charge. They got a
victory because they got me on something," he said.

"We sent the message that we don't want them [the neo-Nazis] around. That's all
that was. That ain't cool. We have to live here. We have to live here together,"
he said.

An official with the American National Socialist Workers' Party official said
July 27 his central Ohio group would lead a march through the same North Toledo
neighborhood today, but Mayor Carty Finkbeiner said Wednesday authorities saw no
indication of any assembly.

In addition, the group's national commander said no rally was planned in Toledo
or anywhere else in Ohio.

Contact Erica Blake at: eblake@theblade.com or 419-213-2134.

To see more of The Blade, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.toledoblade.com. Copyright (c) 2007, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070817-TO-North-Toledo-riot-s-last-defendant-receives-probation-0817

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2007 The Blade


                             622 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Divided opinions over rioting

BYLINE: Solomon Hughes

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 995 words


After last year's riots, magistrates were advised to "disregard normal
sentencing" for those arrested for taking part. The government wanted to crack
down after losing control of the streets. But the first time the Tories faced
riots in the 1980s, the Home Office actually tried to stop prosecutions of those
accused of rioting in case they were seen as "provocative action by the state,"
according to papers I got under freedom of information. In April 1980 the St
Pauls district of Bristol saw the first of many riots faced by Thatcher's
Conservative government.

It presaged the riots that spread throughout England the following year. After
police raided the Black & White cafe in St Pauls, hundreds of mainly black
youngsters rioted, burning down the local Lloyds bank and forcing riot
shield-wielding police to withdraw for four hours. According to the documents,
senior Home Office officials wanted to persuade the attorney general to drop
riot charges raised against 16 locals in July that year, nearly four months
after the event. They worried this would look like a "state trial" adding to
black people's "resentment." The Home Office response was spurred by a letter
from Paul Boateng and Gareth Peirce, acting for 18 people originally facing riot
charges. The letter said those charged with rioting had been originally charged
with much less serious offences and that the riot case would "be seen as a major
offensive act against the community as a whole." Home Office officials took the
letter very seriously, showing how shaken they were by the riot. A memo from top
official Philip Mawer to Willie Whitelaw's office says: "Any decision to press
charges of riot and affray in relation to the Bristol events is bound to be
badly received in the ethnic minority communities. "The lapse of time since the
events and the widespread belief in the black community that those being charged
were not the ringleaders (as the latter were not arrested by the police) would
add to a sense of resentment which remains high in the wake of the government's
decision not to hold a public inquiry. "There would be those who would say that
the preferment of charges of riot and affray belied ministers' assertions that
it was government policy to promote race relations in this country. "There is a
sense in which the concept of a state trial which would be implicit in charges
of riot and affray would be considered to have policy overtones absent from the
sort of prosecutions hitherto instituted by the police in the aftermath of the
disturbances." Mawer, who was later knighted and became parliamentary standards
commissioner, also worried that the run-up to trial and proceedings "would give
plenty of opportunity to those anxious to make further political capital out of
the events in Bristol and provide a focal point for those wishing to stir up
racial tension." It would get in the way of "the task of repairing the rifts
exposed" by the riot, he said. Mawer recommended approaching attorney general
Sir Michael Havers. "In the light of these considerations, the home secretary
may feel that it would be right for him to have an informal word with the
attorney general about the DPP's [director of public prosecutions] decision. "It
would of course be a sensitive and difficult matter to persuade the DPP to alter
a decision to which his office is already publicly committed and it would be for
the attorney to decide what, if any, action to take." His stance was supported
by another public official, Neville Nagler of the I2 race relations division of
the Home Office, who said charges of riot "could well be regarded by the ethnic
minorities as a form of provocative action by the state" and that "we would very
much support your suggestion that this is a matter which the home secretary
might be invited to discuss informally with the attorney general." Another
senior civil servant, Gerald Hayden Phillips, worried that "the effect of the
prosecutions on race relations both in Bristol and more generally ... may well
be justified" and that "it may be that this is a matter on which it would be
right for the home secretary to have an informal word with the attorney
general." Other officials were less convinced. One minute says: "We really ought
to observe the conventions about ministerial involvement in prosecution
decisions as strictly as feasible" and "you may find that the attorney is fully
seized of the race relations considerations and needs no special mention of them
from the secretary of state." The representations came to nothing. In a phone
message to Whitelaw's principal private secretary, the attorney general "was
firmly of the view that the charges made should stand. "It was quite clear that
he had no intention of inviting the home secretary to comment on whether the
charges were appropriate" and so Whitelaw "has decided that he would prefer to
leave its further handling entirely to the attorney general." What does this
tell us? First, the Establishment is not a monolith. Faced with disorder, there
will always be one section calling to step back - even under Thatcher, even
facing riots. Second, campaigns and protest letters to ministers do have an
impact. Third, there are always ways around strict constitutional rules -
although in this case the "informal word" didn't work. Fourth, some members of
the Establishment are better eggs than others. Mawer was certainly one of the
better Home Office officials. And fifth, the better eggs were right. The
prosecutions went ahead - and were a complete failure. The riot trials, which
took place almost a year after the riots in March 1981, began collapsing. Juries
found defendants not guilty or they were freed for lack of evidence or were met
with hung juries. Finally the director of public prosecutions dropped charges
against the remaining four defendants, citing advice on "racial harmony." The
crackdown cracked up and the liberal voices inside the Home Office were proved
right.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             623 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday
                                Lucknow Edition

'Scared of Modi? I've seen my dad,grandma die.I'm scared of nothing'

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 728 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rahul: NaMo Govt Was Involved In Guj Riots;In 1984,Cong Tried To Stop
Riots Says He Had A Hand In Cong Backing To AAP


New Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has drawn a distinction between the 2002
Gujarat riots and the 1984 anti-Sikh riots on the grounds that while the
violence in Gujarat was aided and abetted by the Narendra Modi state
government,in the 1984 riots the government tried to stop the violence.Asked in
an interview why certain Congress leaders like Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler
were facing court cases if the Congress government,indeed,tried to stop the 1984
riots,Rahul didn't respond directly,but eventually acknowledged that some
Congressmen were probably involved in the riots.Covering considerable ground in
a detailed interview with Times Now,Rahul indicated his role in Congress's
decision to support AAP,said he did not want to be formally named PM candidate
because of his respect for the Constitution but expressed confidence about
winning the polls.After initially fending off questions on Modi,Rahul denied he
fears losing to him."I have seen my grandmother ...my father die...there is
absolutely nothing I am scared of." He refuted the suggestion that Congress
might already be knocked out of the 2014 contest,saying he is "reasonably
confident" of winning the election and will,as vice president,accept
responsibility if the party fails.Asked pointedly whether he agrees with
Manmohan Singh's criticism of Modi for presiding over a "mass massacre",Rahul
said,"The Gujarat riots took place,people died.Mr Narendra Modi was in charge of
Gujarat at that point."

He responded to questions about Modi disparagingly referring to him as "shehzada
(prince)" by criticizing BJP for concentrating powers in the hands of one
individual.ON THE 1984 ANTI-SIKH RIOTS Did the riots take place? Absolutely.Did
innocents die? Absolutely.Were Congressmen involved? Some were probably
involved.There is a legal process which they've gone through HOW HE'S COPED WITH
ELECTORAL SETBACKS I don't go into an election thinking it'll be the end of the
world if we lose WHETHER HE SHOULD HAVE SPOKEN OUT ON GRAFT EARLIER My position
was that I report to the PM... Whatever I felt,I had conversations with the PM
WHAT IF AAP TARGETS SHEILA DIKSHIT? Regardless of who the person is,if there is
an issue of corruption,the law should take its course Rahul appreciates AAP's
ability to reach out to people 'In Cong,Anyone Who Doesn't Act On Graft Will Be
Punished' Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi came across as committed to the
long term in politics and sought to counter the impression of being a reluctant
politician,saying that he was "thinking deeply and in the long term".He said his
commitment to altering the existing closed door political system was why he is
being attacked and said,"That's why I am attacked.I understand that.And frankly
attack me all you want.Beat me to death.It is not going to stop me." Rahul also
shed light on Congress move to support AAP which has been strongly criticized by
senior leaders like finance minister P Chidambaram."I think as far as I am
concerned that AAP won an election in Delhi,we thought we would assist them," he
said,making it clear that the decision was cleared at the highest level in the
party.Asked if Congress would continue to support AAP if it goes against Sheila
Dikshit in the CWG scam,Rahul said,"I have already said that regardless of who
the person is,if there is an issue of corruption,the law should take its
course." Rahul appreciated AAP's ability to connect with people,saying,"They
reached out to people in a particular way that was good,there are things that I
don't think we should take away from them." But he vehemently denied that
Congress was propping up AAP to check BJP."I think you underestimate the power
of the Congress party,I don't think the Congress party could even do that if
they wanted to," adding sharply,"I think questions about whether we have
supported AAP or not supported AAP,frankly it is a ridiculous notion." Though he
evaded questions about why he was not acting against Maharashtra leader Ashok
Chavan and Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh who are facing
corruption allegations,Rahul said no one will be protected though a legal
process cannot be short-circuited."What I will say is that in the Congress party
anybody who does any act of corruption will be taken and punished...( But) there
is a legal process and that legal process should be followed," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             624 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           October 9, 1985 Wednesday

LEFT-WING PLOT IN RIOTS, SAY POLICE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: KLAGES P

LENGTH: 416 words


Left-wing plot in riots, say police From our LONDON BUREAU and AP-Reuter
LONDON._ Criminals had taken advantage of the death of a black woman, causing
the severe riots which rocked north London on Sunday, police claimed yesterday.
They reported finding a petrol bomb factory in Tottenham and claimed rioters
were directing attacks during the riots with ""walkie-talkie" communicators.
London Police Commissioner Sir Kenneth Newman said detectives were hunting for
Left-wing agitators believed to be responsible for plotting the riots. At
Tottenham this week police for the first time were shot at during street
violence and one officer was hacked to death by a mob of youths. The violence at
Tottenham followed the death of a black women, Mrs Cynthia Jarrett, who
collapsed and died after police began searching her home looking for her wanted
son. Police believe agitators used gatherings of mourners after her death to
fuel discontent, setting off the riots. They also are investigating the
possibility that riots in Brixton, south London, nearly two weeks ago, were
started in the same way after police accidentally shot and crippled a black
woman. Community leaders and Opposition politicians blame police tactics, racism
and the plight of young people in inner cities for the violence. Tottenham,
Brixton and areas of Birmingham and Liverpool all have a big black population
and record unemployment. Sir Kenneth yesterday gave warning that his officers
would use plastic bullets and tear gas to contain civil violence. Plastic
bullets and tear gas have up to now only been used to contain sectarian violence
in Northern Ireland. Riot police yesterday stood guard on the streets of a
housing estate which was at the centre of the trouble, but there was no
repetition of the riots of Sunday and Monday. More than 230 people were injured,
mainly police, and at least five people shot in the clashes. Police believe they
have reached a turning point in their anti-riot techniques. Sir Kenneth said
plastic bullets and tear gas had become a regrettable necessity for the
normally-unarmed force. He said police this week had not taken the offensive,
but stood firm under a hail of petrol bombs, concrete slabs and debris to try to
contain the riot. Sir Kenneth said Britain's was the most restrained police
force in the world, but it had to be protected. ""It was a ferocious night we
must never forget." Home Secretary Douglas Hurd promised to give police whatever
equipment they needed.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             625 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Accused rioters appear in court; Some of the dozens facing charges start their
journeys through justice system

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 307  words


A Coquitlam man charged for his alleged part in the Stanley Cup riot will spend
Christmas in jail.

Ryan Dickinson, 20, appeared in Vancouver Provincial Court Friday and was
ordered held in custody pending a Jan. 6 arraignment date.

Dickinson is charged with participating in a riot and two counts of mischief
over $5,000. He was held in custody after being picked up more than a week ago
for breaching his probation.

The day before he was taken in, Dickinson told The Province he was concerned
about the riot charges because he had been out on bail pending a 2010 aggravated
assault charge at the time of the June 15 riot.

In October, he was given a year's probation for a downgraded conviction of
assault causing bodily harm, which he said happened "while I was drunk at the
time."

Dickinson, a sheet-metal apprentice working at a window repair company, said he
was totally sober the night of the Stanley Cup riot and got "caught up in the
moment.

"These charges are a real concern," he said. "I just started a job I really
like.

"I had a curfew at the time and ended up going down," added Dickinson of his
trip into downtown Vancouver. "I didn't have any liquor, I was just being
stupid."

A number of others charged in the riot made their first appearances. Jerry
Wernicke, 28, who is charged with participating in a riot and mischief, and
Richard Dorosh, 18, who is charged with participating in a riot and
break-and-enter, had their next court appearances set over to Jan. 26.

Mobeen Mohammed, 33, who faces break-and-enter and participating-in-a-riot
charges, will be in court Jan. 12 along with Emmanuel Alviar, 20, who is charged
with participating in a riot and two counts of mischief.

In all of Friday's cases, a Crown prosecutor made notice they will seek to get
an application to have the court proceedings televised.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Les Bazso - PNG; Jerry Wernicke; Les Bazso - PNG;  Emmanuel Alviar
(above) leave court Friday after their first appearance to face charges. Both
will return to court next month.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             626 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WEAK ARM OF LAW BLAMED FOR RIOTS;
Police failure to crack down let rampages spread

BYLINE: STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 288 words


MOST of the summer riots were yesterday officially blamed on police weakness.

Yobs across England trashed and looted after seeing how ineffective London's
force were at dealing with the initial outbreak, an inquiry said.

That was the "sole trigger" for the riots spreading, the Riots Communities And
Victims Panel ruled.

It estimated the total cost at up to £500million. The report said: "Lack of
confidence in the police response to the initial riots encouraged people to test
reactions in other areas.

"Rioters believed they would be able to loot and damage without being challenged
by the police. In the hardest-hit areas, they were correct."

The report also blasted police for failing to protect victims trapped in their
homes. The first riots in Tottenham, north London, were caused by police
shooting dead Mark Duggan, 29, but there was not "one single reason" why they
spread.

The report said: "We heard a range of motivations from the need for new trainers
to a desire to attack society."

Chairman Darra Singh warned: "Our research led us to conclude riots of this
nature will happen again unless immediate action is taken."

Police must be clear about the balance between protecting commercial property
and protecting homes, the report said.

The panel estimated 13,000-15,000 people were "actively involved" in August's
riots, in cities including Birmingham, Liverpool, Manchester, Bristol,
Gloucester and Nottingham.

More than 4,000 suspects were arrested, nearly all known to police. Five people
died during the rioting and an estimated 5,000 crimes were committed.

The Star Says: Page 6 steve.hughes@dailystar.co.uk ? 15,000 took part ? 4,000
arrests ? Five people killed ? 5,000 crimes were committed ? £500million cost of
riots

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOT: Mark Duggan
MOCKING: Youth gets close-up of cop
¦ SCENE OF THE CRIMES : Hooded lout last August. Below: Mob attack a shop

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             627 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Mob Rule

BYLINE: Reviewed by John Plotz

SECTION: BOOK WORLD; SOCIOLOGY; Pg. T05

LENGTH: 1048 words


THE DEADLY ETHNIC RIOT

By Donald L. Horowitz

Univ. of California. 588 pp. $ 35

"Crowds are somewhat like the sphinx," wrote Gustave Le Bon in 1895. Unless we
figure them out we must "resign ourselves to being devoured by them." But a
century has passed, and we have learned to discriminate between devouring and
empowering crowds. On the one hand, crowds have brought democracy to such
unlikely homes as Czechoslovakia and Serbia, and crowds startled governments in
China and South Africa, substituting their demonstrating bodies for the ballots
that they lacked.

On the other hand, there have been hundreds of instances of the worst imaginable
sort of public collective action: the deadly ethnic riot. Donald Horowitz's new
book is a terrifying but deeply compelling anatomy of the crowds of civilians
that seek out members of a rival ethnic group to torment, torture and finally to
murder.

In Horowitz's view a deadly ethnic riot is not a reciprocal battle but a
one-sided massacre of civilians by civilians, undertaken "against strong targets
at weak moments." So what is it that makes civilians from two groups who have
always thought of each other as different but who have generally coexisted
without real problems -- e.g., Hindus and Muslims in many parts of India, or
Tamils and Sinhalese in Sri Lanka -- start launching deadly attacks upon each
other? Horowitz argues that three criteria must be satisfied. Rioters feel a
sense of moral justification; they are sure that they can attack with impunity;
and the political climate is rife with uncertainty, so that they fear that the
target group may deprive them of their current rights or advantages.

In these cases there is plenty of blame to be distributed among assenting
civilians and apathetic governments. But Horowitz resists seeing such riots as
the careful products of highly structured planning by governments or subversive
groups. A high level of planning suits terrorist attacks or lynchings, he
argues, but not riots, which require a widespread assent among participants and
the surrounding ethnic community as a whole.

Nor does Horowitz believe in the explanation that Emile Durkheim (and such
followers as Le Bon and Elias Canetti) offered for crowd actions: irrational
exuberance. Look at the sort of instrumental rationality required to pull off a
successful riot, he urges. Such attacks rarely risk lives on the attacking side:
Attackers almost never lose even one person for every 10 targets killed. Rioters
wait until police protection is weak; they choose moments well; they strike
against unarmed concentrations of a target group in border neighborhoods (thus
rural ethnic riots are fairly rare). Perhaps the book's most chilling insight is
that deadly-ethnic-assault crowds make extremely meticulous examinations to make
sure all those they kill are members of their target group. Rioters will risk a
huge number of false negatives (letting targets go) to avoid a false positive
(killing one of their own).

Most significant, a deadly ethnic riot is not the same thing as a violent
protest. The protest crowd is fundamentally oriented against governmental
policy, and rarely aims its wrath at interpersonal targets. If it does, it
targets only the police or army. This clarifying definition helps both scholars
and policymakers to avoid invoking the blurred and misleading idea of a "deadly
crowd" to condemn a wide range of political protests. In the United States, the
last spate of deadly ethnic riots included such white-on-black killings as those
in East St. Louis in 1919. By contrast, recent unrest in Miami (1984) and Los
Angeles (1992) took the form of violent anti-government protests. Such
distinctions do not mean that what happened in L.A. was simply another lively
demonstration. But they do remind us that the whites who once were allowed to
murder African Americans with impunity are by no means comparable to the crowds
who gather in more or less orderly ways to air grievances against an indifferent
government.

Indeed, the comparison between the deadly riots of 1919 and the unruly ones of
the 1992 is important for Horowitz, who has written extensively on racial
problems in America before. The key question is why deadly ethnic riots have
ended in America and Western Europe but not elsewhere. Ending deadly ethnic
riots clearly requires more than simple prosperity (America had horrible race
riots in the wealthy 1920s) or the advent of democracy (India today is both
democratic and deeply plagued by internecine mobs). What will have to change,
then for such riots to pass away from the earth?

Here, Horowitz falters slightly. He believes that strong proactive policing and
army intervention will make great inroads on the problem. (I am dubious.) And,
in what strikes me as one of the book's few real weaknesses, he ends by praising
Western democracies for a widespread culture of tolerance and individualism that
precludes our classifying ourselves by ethnic group and acting accordingly. But
such claims are suspect -- after all, the greatest genocide of all occurred in
Europe's heartland -- and become even more so in light of recent racial attacks
against Asians and gypsies in Germany and Eastern Europe. I wonder if more
attention to the geographical spread of deadly ethnic riots would not have
revealed other divisions between sites of rioting and spaces of serenity: There
are great swathes of the developing world that are unafflicted. (The book would
benefit, incidentally, from a few good maps and from a comprehensive list of all
the incidents analyzed.) And the 20th century's unmistakable upswing in pogroms
tells us much more than Horowitz lets on about these riots' connection with
modernity and modern technology.

Whatever the true reasons for the riot's relative success in various nations,
however, Horowitz's book is comprehensive, illuminating, unprecedented in scope
and absolutely fascinating. It may be just the thing for realists -- yes, you
know them as pessimists -- who are looking for some chilly truths about the
sphinx that has haunted the century past and may yet haunt the century to come.
*

John Plotz, an assistant professor of English at Johns Hopkins University, is
the author of "The Crowd: British Literature and Public Politics."</body>

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                             628 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Photos help nab Cronulla riot suspects

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 347 words


A WARILLA man has been charged and several others identified after photographs
of 20 Cronulla riot suspects were splashed across newspapers yesterday.

The photos were released by Sydney police after the 20 men failed to respond to
a police request to come forward following the December 11 riot.

Detectives attached to Strike Force Enoggera, established to investigate the
riot and the revenge attacks that followed, say the 20 are suspected of being
involved in assault, malicious damage and attacks upon emergency vehicles.

Craig Sala, 20, of Warilla, was charged with riot and affray after contacting
police yesterday.

NSW Police Minister Carl Scully said another eight men had been positively
identified and called on the remaining 11 to surrender themselves.

"I'd say to those people, save yourselves the embarrassment and turn up to a
police station," Mr Scully said.

Detective Superintendent Ken McKay, who heads Strike Force Enoggera, said he had
received a large number of calls about the photos, some being made by the
suspected rioters. "I got a couple of phone calls last night ... and they were
people who appeared in the photos," he said.

Asked if he believed the strike force would track down all 20 men, Mr McKay
said: "If I was a betting man, I'd say we'll go very close."

However, he said there had been little response to a grainy video showing a
number of Middle Eastern men throwing projectiles at passing cars.

"The members of the Middle Eastern community need to understand if they want to
live in this society, a law abiding society, the only way the police can operate
is with help," he said.

But Keysar Trad, president of the Islamic Friendship Association of Australia,
said Mr Mckay's comments were "an unfair criticism of the community".

"As a community we are sick and tired of people pointing a finger at us and
saying why aren't we doing enough," he said.

"Community leaders don't generally mix with the criminal element and we don't
recognise these people."

Mr Scully said while Islamic leaders were co-operating with police, others were
harbouring "thugs and grubs".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riot act: Detective Superintendent Ken McKay, who heads Strike
Force Enoggera, calls on the 11 remaining riot suspects to "save yourselves the
embarrassment and turn up to a police station". Picture: FAIRFAX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2006 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             629 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Boy accused of trying to incite riot via Facebook loses his anonymity

BYLINE: Nick Britten

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 536 words


A 16-YEAR-OLD boy accused of trying to incite a riot via Facebook is believed to
be the first youth allegedly involved in the violence to be named after a court
lifted reporting restrictions protecting his anonymity.

Johnny Melfah is said to have posted several messages on a group that had been
set up called "Letz start a riot", encouraging people to riot in Worcester.

Yesterday the chairman of the bench at Worcester magistrates' court decided to
lift restrictions on identification, deeming it in the public interest, despite
the teenager not having entered a plea.

A week ago the Crown Prosecution Service issued guidance to prosecutors to ask
courts to "lift the anonymity of a youth defendant when they believe it is
required in the public interest that the youth be identified".

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, said that she wanted as many of the young
criminals involved in the riots as possible to be identified. More than 1,400
people have now appeared in court charged with riot-related offences.

Last week, Jordan Blackshaw, 20, of Northwich, Cheshire, and Perry
Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, of Warrington, Cheshire, both received four-year sentences
after creating Facebook pages that urged rioting in their home towns.

Johnny Melfah was detained by police in Worcester city centre with a group of
youths on the night of Aug 9. Matt Dodson, for the prosecution, said: "It cannot
be clear as to what exactly he was doing there on that night."

No riots took place in Worcester. The teenager is charged with intentionally
encouraging or assisting the commission of widespread thefts and criminal
damage. He was bailed to appear today at Worcester youth court.

He lives with his mother, Mel Garfield, sister and two brothers, in Droitwich.
One neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "I know it's only a Facebook
page but people have suffered from what went on."

The youth appeared in court alongside 21-year-old Danny Cook, from
Kidderminster, Worcs, who is accused of starting the Facebook "riot" group.

He is said to have posted: "I started the group for people who want to riot but
are sat at home. I wanted to start a riot in Worcester, like many young people
in Birmingham have, free iPads available." He is charged with intentionally
encouraging or assisting the commission of widespread thefts and criminal
damage. The charge relates to accusations of encouraging rioting in Birmingham,
Droitwich, Worcester and Kidderminster.

Cook did not enter a plea and was bailed until a committal hearing at Worcester
magistrates' court on Oct 18.

In Wales, a 21-year-old man who had told his Facebook friends "Let's start
Bangor riots" was jailed yesterday for four months. David Glyn Jones, of
Glasinfryn, Bangor, Gwynedd, had written: "I don't see why everyone's
complaining about the rioters. Given the chance I'd love to smash up a police
car, wouldn't you?"

Prosecutor Diane Williams told Caernarfon magistrates' court that the comments
on Aug 9 were seen by a former colleague of Jones and police were alerted.
Deborah Tennant-Davies, for Jones, said he had not thought his comments would be
taken seriously and were only on Facebook for 20 minutes.

Jones pleaded guilty to an offence under the Communications Act.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Johnny Melfah, 16, left, is accused of posting messages encouraging
people to riot on a Facebook page set up by Danny Cook, 21
NEWSTEAM ANITA MARIC/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             630 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           October 21, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

It's time police got back to basics;
Report on the Cronulla riots

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 456 words


FIRST there was the issue of how the report on the Cronulla riots was handled,
then there is the report itself. Norm Hazzard's inquiry into the police response
to the riots hints at a force which has been too busy meeting the needs of its
political masters to learn from experience.

The lessons were there to be learned. The Macquarie Fields riots early last year
exposed shortcomings in the police response to rioting. Some were minor but
telling - police were unable to leave the front line to get a drink of water.
Others, though, were systemic problems which hampered an effective response.
Senior police lacked the training and experience to deal effectively with large
public disturbances which called for a co-ordinated, almost military response.
By the middle of last year, the shortcomings had been identified.

Yet when the even more serious Cronulla riots broke out five months later,
police were still unprepared. Command systems were still not up to scratch:
during the two days of the Cronulla riots it was not clear who was in charge of
the operation to restore order. The public order and riot squad, which had been
approved after Macquarie Fields, did not begin operations until two months after
calm had returned to the Sutherland Shire.

Unlike Macquarie Fields, which was a quick reaction to a fatal police pursuit,
there was ample warning of trouble brewing at Cronulla. The incident that
sparked the eventual conflagration - a fight between Caucasian and Middle
Eastern males on December 4 - was discussed and amplified for a week on air and
in newspapers. About 270,000 mobile text messages were sent as each side in the
conflict readied support. Police were present in sufficient numbers on the
morning of the riot but, even so, as the situation degenerated inadequacies
appeared.

Mr Hazzard also examines the operational decisions made as events unfolded. He
finds, on the whole, that police in all the circumstances played a commendable
role. Given the controversy over the way police handled the revenge convoys
after the Cronulla riot on December 11, that is reassuring, as far as it goes.
Final judgement, however, must await the release of a second report by two
former police commanders on the operations of Strike Force Enoggera, which
investigated the riot and revenge attacks.

As the row over the release of the report has shown, the NSW police force is the
ball in a high-intensity political game. Distracted by the demands of
politicians who want to look tough, it loses focus on vital operational needs.
The shortcomings of its response at Cronulla are the result. It is time for the
Government to look beyond its own political needs and allow police the time and
resources to improve services where it counts.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             631 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 5, 2014 Wednesday

Paucity of judges hit trial of re-opened Bhagalpur riots cases

LENGTH: 334  words


The trial of the re-opened cases relating to the 1989 Bhagalpur communal riots
in Bihar has been hit by an acute paucity of judges, a senior lawyer said on
Wednesday.


"Trial of Bhagalpur riots cases has been badly hit as many posts of judges have
been lying vacant for more than a year," Additional Special Public Prosecutor
Atiullah said in a letter addressed to the Patna High Court chief justice.
Atiullah said that vacant posts of judicial officers were delaying justice to
hundreds of victims of the Bhagalpur riots.
Over 1,000 people, a majority of them Muslims, were killed in the month-long
riots in Bhagalpur city in October 1989.
"The posts of third, fifth and seventh additional district and sessions judges,
earmarked for trial of Bhagalpur riot cases by the high court have been vacant
for more than one year. While post of second additional district and session
judge fell vacant after the incumbent judicial officer took over as first
additional district and session judge in June 2013," he said.
Atiullah said that it was not first time trial of Bhagalpur riots cases has come
to a halt. A similar situation cropped up due to vacant posts of judges in the
past.
"It is bound to affect and delay proceedings of the courts for trial of riot
cases," he said.
A total of 876 cases were registered by police of which chargesheets were filed
in 293. The remaining 583 cases were closed by police citing lack of evidence
for investigation.
However, 39 riot cases were reopened between 2006 and 2009 on recommendation of
a judicial committee appointed by the Nitish Kumar government.
In 2006, Nitish Kumar instituted a fresh probe to re-investigate the riot cases
that were closed by the police for lack of evidence.
The commission, headed by Justice (retd) NN Singh, submitted an interim report
in 2007. Till date, police have filed chargesheeted in 29 of 39 re-opened cases
and 10 cases were again closed.
Atiullah said a total of 346 accused have been convicted. As many as 107 have
been awarded life term.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             632 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday
                                  Pune Edition

Kodnani's conviction dents Modi's 'secular' image

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 617 words



HIGHLIGHT: She Was Made Minister Despite Her Involvement In Massacre


NewDelhi:The conviction of his former minister Maya Kodnani has brought the
Gujarat riot trial at the Narendra Modi government's doorstep,undercutting the
CM's effort to project a "secular" image as a prop for his prime ministerial
aspirations.Modi made Kodnani a minister after his landslide win in 2002
elections in defiance of rampant allegations of her involvement in the
Naroda-Patia massacre earlier that year.Kodnani was retained as minister and
remained part of the ministerial team till the SIT chargesheet forced her to
resign.Given the background,the verdict of the trial court re-ignited memories
of the post-Godhra anti-Muslim violence of 2002 and the attendant accusation of
the state government's failure,setting back his effort to de-emphasize what is
seen by many as the defining feature of his reign with a "let-us-moveon"
message.It threatens to take away from the relief Modi received when SIT
concluded there is insufficient evidence to prosecute him for involvement in
communal riots.BJP on Wednesday challenged the argument that Kodnani's
conviction is a confirmation of the charge of the Modi regime's complicity in
riots,saying she was not a minister when the communal violence broke
out.Politically speaking,it is not going to wash with those who in any case
consider Modi to be a radio-active material because of the riots.Bihar CM Nitish
Kumar has made an early commitment from the BJP not to project Modi for PM a
pre-condition for continuing in the NDA.The verdict can only strengthen Kumar's
arguments,nullifying any hope that Modi's third straight win in assembly polls
and a growing anti-Congress mood may allow BJP to persist with ambivalence on
the leadership question.BJP was conspicuously low key in response to the verdict
with the otherwise vocal spokespersons trying to argue that the development was
part of an ongoing legal process."We don't want to politicize the judicial
process... this is the first court,it is a judicial process,it will go on," said
party spokesperson Prakash Javadekar.He further said the riotconvict had
resigned immediately after the chargesheet was filed,unlike as happens in
Congress.Asked whether her involvement in the riots shows complicity of the
Gujarat government,he said,"I don't think so".Javadekar,however,kept referring
to the 1984 riots in Delhi and the recent lower Assam violence as both happened
during Congress regimes in respective states.He did so while mentioning the
Gujarat riots that happened under Modi's chief ministership to say that "any
riot or killing should be condemned and the guilty should be punished."

Whether is anti-Sikh riots of 1984,or the Maharashtra,Assam or Gujarat riots,it
is unfortunate and a blot on the face of the nation.Any level of condemnation
for any riot is insufficient.We have always criticized the Godhra incident and
Gujarat riots,that is our stand," Javadekar said.This man saved over 100 Muslims
in '02 Ahmedabad:Among the 32 convicted in the Naroda Patia massacre,10 are
members of the Chhara community.But a member from the community has been hailed
as a saviour of Muslims.Sunil Tamaiche,44,was conferred the Indira Gandhi Award
for National Integration in 2003 for saving the lives of more than 100 Muslims
in Naroda on the day one of the biggest riot killings in Gujarat took place in
the aftermath of the Godhra train burning.Tamaiche knew quite well that he too
was not safe for sheltering Muslims in Chharanagar,particularly when members of
his community were allegedly involved in the violence that killed 97.He had the
support of his neighbours,but the mood was not the same in Mahajaniya Vaas that
is adjacent to the small Muslim community living near Naroda Patia.TNN

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             633 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Drive Edition

SHERIFF CALLS MELEE THE WORST HE'S SEEN AT PRIVATE PRISON ;
Inmates in Sayre injured during riot

BYLINE: RON JACKSON, TIFFANY GIBSON AND MATT PATTERSON, Staff Writers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 704 words

DATELINE: SAYRE


SAYRE - Beckham County Sheriff Scott Jay said Tuesday's riot at the North Fork
Correctional Facility is the worst he has heard about since the private prison
opened in 1999.

When he arrived at the scene, Jay said. "We saw mass fighting all over the
yard."

Sixteen inmates were taken to area hospitals to be treated for injuries,
according to a  statement released about 8 p.m. by the operator of the private
prison, Corrections Corp. of America. One had been returned to the prison by
evening. The statement also said that 30 inmates were treated at the facility.

No staff injuries were reported, the statement said.

Prison spokeswoman Michelle Deherrera said the riot broke out about 11:45 a.m.
at the medium-security facility that houses inmates from  California.

Officers contained riot

Jay said he saw weapons in use by the brawling inmates, but he couldn't identify
what they were. Knowing prison culture, Jay said, he would speculate they were
homemade weapons.

Smaller incidents have happened at the prison, Jay said, but he was only aware
of one other time when local law officers were called in to help.

Officers from the Beckham County Sheriff's Department, and the Sayre and Elk
City Police Department, as well as the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, helped contain
the riot.

Ambulance crews from nearby towns such as Elk City and Erick provided medical
care.

At 5 p.m., after as many as a dozen patients had been taken to the hospital,
seven ambulances remained lined up outside the gates.

Jay said at least 11 ground ambulance runs were made from the prison.

Midwest City Police Chief Brandon Clabes said at least two injured prisoners
were taken by medical helicopter to Midwest Regional Medical Center. Midwest
City police were asked to provide security until prison employees arrived,
Clabes said.

Inmates also were airlifted to OU Medical Center, a spokesman said, but he
referred further questions to corrections  authorities.

"Right now, we don't know if this was racially motivated, or they had a beef
with the facility or what," Jay said.

Deherrera did not release any information about a possible reason for the riot.

Sayre police escorted ambulances to the Sayre hospital, and Elk City police
provided security for ambulances that took injured inmates to the hospital in
Elk City, Sayre Police Chief Eddie Holland said.

"We'll be here as long as it takes," Holland said about 4 p.m. "Right now, the
whole place is a crime scene."

Relatives concerned

Relatives of prison employees, gathered at the county barn about two miles away
shortly after the riot broke out, spent the afternoon pacing and waiting for
their cellphones to ring.

A Beckham County dispatcher said local law officers and ambulance crews were
called about 11:50 a.m. to assist in the riot at 1605 E Main St.

Bill Barrett, spokesman for Great Plains Regional Medical Center in Elk City,
said multiple patients were taken to that hospital.

Deherrera said public safety was never threatened. She did not say how long it
took the staff to contain the riot.

Dale Denwalt, a reporter for the Daily Elk Citian, said a sheriff's deputy
provided details about the riot to the waiting relatives.

A source inside the prison said 530 people are employed there but did not
release numbers on how many were at work when the riot broke out.

Louis Thompson, 20, of Elk City, said his mother, Cherie, is a correctional
officer with CCA.

He said he heard about the riot from his sister and was pacing across the street
from the prison throughout the afternoon, worrying about his mother's safety.

"She said they had a couple of small riots, but nothing very big," Thompson
said.

"She said she could feel something was about to happen, and it did. I just hope
she's all right."

Deherrera said the prison was being placed on complete lockdown, with all
inmates confined to their cells and movement restricted until further notice.

"When I arrived a little bit after 12:30, the situation from outside the
facility seemed calm," Denwalt said. "There were some inmates who were in the
courtyard sitting against the wall, and the guards were obviously watching
them."

According to the Oklahoma Corrections Department, North Fork can house up to
2,500 male  inmates.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo 1: An injured prisoner arrives Tuesday afternoon at Great Plains
Regional Medical Center in Elk City. Reports of injuries continued to filter in
Tuesday following a large-scale riot at North Fork Correctional Facility in
Sayre. PHOTO BY DEREK BROWN, DAILY ELK CITIAN
Photo 2: Police and ambulance crews were dispatched Tuesday to North Fork
Correctional Facility in Sayre after fights broke out among California inmates
held there. PHOTO BY DALE DENWALT, DAILY ELK CITIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             634 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 22, 2013 Sunday

Azam Khan is 'UP's Modi', says Syed Ahmad Bukhari

BYLINE: Pankaj Shah

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 451 words


LUCKNOW: Shahi Imam of Delhi Jama Masjid Syed Ahmad Bukhari on Saturday joined
the chorus of opposition in taking a pot shot at senior Samajwadi Party leader
Azam Khan, calling him "Narendra Modi of Uttar Pradesh". He accused Khan of
orchestrating the riots that led to massacre of Muslims and forced many to leave
their home in the riot-hit Muzaffarnagar district.

Speaking to TOI, Bukhari said that the sting operation has cleared all doubts as
to who was behind the riots. It was a couple of days ago when a sting operation
by a TV channel showed cops claiming there was political pressure to go slow on
rioters. It was claimed, Khan, the minister in charge of Muzaffarnagar, had been
directing cops when riots were unfolding. The two cops in the sting were later
transferred, casting doubts on UP government claims on impartial probe. The
sting give an ammo to the opposition to gun for the SP's Muslim face, Azam Khan,
alleging his direct involvement in fanning the riots.

"I reiterated my stand during the Friday prayers that Azam is no less than
Narendra Modi since he fanned the riots,'' Bukhari, who has been cosying up to
the Congress ally Rashtriya Lok Dal, said. The Imam said that he would certainly
attempt to go to Muzaffarnagar if Azam Khan visited the riot-hit district. "I am
getting calls from the people asking me to come there and see for myself the
condition of Muslims in the present dispensation. But I am being stopped from
going there. What can I do?" he said.

Earlier this week Bukhari was prevented from visiting riot-hit Muzaffarnagar. "I
wanted to visit riot-affected areas in Muzaffarnagar on a couple of occasions to
meet the victims and their families. But the administration did not allow me to
go. Government should take strict action against the guilty," said Bukhari. He
was detained near Ghaziabad and taken to Vasundhara PWD Guest house by the city
police.

A furious Bukhari had earlier asked Mulayam Singh Yadav to sack Azam from the
Samajwadi Party as he had "nothing to do with the people".' Bukhari claimed that
Muslims hated the SP leader. "Samajwadi Party should not give him importance and
sack him immediately," he said. He accused Khan of playing vote bank politics
with the Muslims. He said that he was looking after more than ten government
departments, but has not benefited Muslim community so far.

Due to Khan's behavior, tension has been mounting in the state, he said, adding
the state government had not fulfilled the expectation of Muslims. "We supported
Samajwadi Party in the state elections, but it has not fulfilled our
expectations after coming to power. Law and order situations has deteriorated,"
Bukhari added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             635 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday

Inmate accused in CCA riot pleads 'not guilty'

BYLINE: Vershal Hogan, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Oct. 30--NATCHEZ -- An inmate charged in the May 20 prison riot at Adams County
Correctional Facility pleaded "not guilty" Friday to the charges against him.

Yoany Oriel Serrano-Bejarano entered the plea before federal Magistrate Judge F.
Keith Ball in Jackson, and Friday the judge appointed a public defender for
Serrano-Bejarano and set a jury trial for the matter for Dec. 3.

The defendant was indicted Oct. 3 on charges of instigating, conniving,
attempting to cause, assisting and conspiring to cause a mutiny and riot.

During the seven-hour riot in which Serrano-Bejarano is accused of
participating, a guard -- Catlin Carithers, 24 -- was killed, and other guards
were injured and taken hostage.

Previous court filings against Serrano-Bejarano allege he helped inmates access
the roof of a building where correctional officers trying to control the riot
were. Carithers was on one of the prison's roofs when he was assaulted and
received the wounds from which he died.

An affidavit filed in September alleges the defendant was one of a number of
inmates who stacked food carts in order to reach the officers on the roof.

The affidavit likewise states a participant in the riot told investigators he
had witnessed Serrano-Bejarano assaulting a hostage correctional officer during
the prison uprising.

The riot started after prison officials tried to contain a mass disobedience by
a group of prisoners known as Paisas -- an informal prison group composed of
Mexican nationals -- who wanted to express displeasure with the facility's
operations and staff.

Another inmate accused in the riot, Juan Lopez-Fuentes, pleaded guilty to
charges against him Aug. 27, and will be sentenced Nov. 19.

Print Article

___ (c)2012 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121030-YY-Inmate-accused-in-CCA-riot-pleads-not-guilty-1030-20121030

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2012 The Natchez Democrat


                             636 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             March 27, 2012 Tuesday

Vancouver to reveal plan to stickhandle any future Stanley Cup playoff chaos

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON and DAVID EBNER

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; RIOT REVIEW; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The last time the Vancouver Canucks competed in a Stanley Cup playoff game, it
wasn't just their play that made headlines - it was also the conduct of their
fans, thousands of whom took part in a riot that left millions of dollars in
damage.

On Tuesday, the city will unveil its strategy to prevent a repeat of the ugly
June 15 incident. City manager Penny Ballem will update council on playoff
plans, as well as the implementation of the Stanley Cup riot review
recommendations.

The city's efforts to head off violence will also get an assist from the
hometown hockey team, which will soon launch a new campaign encouraging fans to
behave responsibly.

The riot review - chaired by John Furlong and Douglas Keefe - found large crowds
and the free flow of alcohol were the primary factors in the city's second
hockey riot since 1994. Though no one at the city would release details,
multiple sources confirmed Monday that the plan will address those two issues.

The city is expected to focus on smaller-scale celebrations - as opposed to the
150,000-person street party that erupted into a riot after the Canucks lost Game
7 of the Stanley Cup final to the Boston Bruins. Exactly what form those
smaller-scale celebrations take remains to be seen.

In their review, Mr. Furlong and Mr. Keefe said liquor interdiction efforts were
overwhelmed the night of the riot, both on the streets and on transit. Stronger
enforcement of liquor regulations will be part of the playoff plan.

Charles Gauthier, executive director of the Downtown Vancouver Business
Improvement Association, said his organization consulted with the city but
hasn't been told what plans will be in place for the playoffs.

"What we don't want to hear them say is they're doing something similar to last
year," he said in an interview. "What we've seen in the past is bars and
restaurants and other venues have been able to show the game and I think that
model's worked quite well in the sense that there's sufficient controls in
place, ensuring there's not an overconsumption of alcohol."

Mr. Gauthier said his association supports smaller outdoor events with multiple
venues and advance planning.

The Canucks, like the mayor and chief of police, tried to distance themselves
from the riot in its immediate aftermath. In a brief 193-word statement on the
afternoon after the riot, the Canucks stated they had encouraged fans to
"celebrate responsibly" through the season and pinned blame on a minority of
people.

After the riot review was released, the Canucks took up action with more vigour.
They were urged to use moral suasion with fans and to utilize the team's famous
names, current and past. Last fall, the Canucks unveiled a campaign called
"Heart of a Canuck" as an advertising theme for the season, starting on opening
night at home with a ceremony that honoured "local heroes" from the night of the
riot.

The team - which clinched a playoff spot last Saturday, winning its division -
is now readying another significant advertising push, which drums up positive
emotions and calls for respect, without explicitly saying "don't riot." The team
plans to announce the campaign shortly, and draws closely from the review's
recommendations, such as player endorsements, and use of famous team alumni.

With a report from Frances Bula

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             637 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Can rioters be fired from their jobs?

BYLINE: Wendy Stueck

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; RIOTS IN VANCOUVER / THE LABOUR CODE; Pg. S3

LENGTH: 309 words


As police sift through thousands of videos and photographs of people involved in
Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot, employers are also studying the evidence.

Some people have already lost their jobs as a result of their alleged
involvement in the riot and others could face dismissal as their employers come
under pressure from angry customers who want to see rioters sacked.

Labour law, however, may not support an employer's right to fire a person over
acts committed by that person when he or she is not at work.

"Terminating people for just cause on the basis that their conduct has
essentially repudiated the employment agreement ... that is an extremely high
threshold to meet these days in Canada," Peter Eastwood, a labour lawyer with
Borden Ladner Gervais in Vancouver, said on Monday. "Unless you can clearly show
this [riot conduct] is tied somehow to the employment relationship, it's going
to be very difficult to say that that person has breached the employment
relationship simply by doing some horrible, obviously egregious, thing, but in
their off-duty conduct."

Companies that have policies relating to employees' use of social media or
conduct off the job could have more leeway when it comes to firing employees
over riot-related acts or social media postings, Mr. Eastwood said, adding that
he expects that the riot - and its aftermath of online vigilantism - will spur
more companies to consider adding such language to their contracts.

While some riot-related firings might not hold up in court or under the B.C.
Human Rights Code - which prohibits firing because that person has been
convicted of a criminal or summary conviction offence that is unrelated to the
employment or to the intended employment of that person - Mr. Eastwood does not
expect a flurry of wrongful dismissal or human-rights claims over riot-related
firings.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             638 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                          December 24, 2008 Wednesday
                             Web-Exclusive Edition

There's a riot goin' on;
L.A. Riots bring their dual-DJ mix to Boulder

BYLINE: Wendy Kale kale@coloradodaily.com

LENGTH: 639 words


If you go

Who:

L.A. Riots

When:

9 tonight

Where:

Fox Theatre, 1135 13th St.

Cost:

$10

www.foxtheatre.com

I

t's the weekend after Christmas, but that's not stopping local venues from
hosting a full slate of cool shows.

Many locals hunkered down and stayed in Boulder this holiday week. Now, they can
check out L.A. Riots at the Fox Theatre and the Motet's Talking Heads show at
the Boulder Theater.

L.A. Riots

Get ready to start your New Year's party a little early. That's because L.A.'s
premier electro dance party, aka L.A. Riots, is getting ready to invade the Fox
tonight.

L.A. Riots creates a pulsating DJ mix of electro sounds and the group is gaining
note around the globe.

The mixmasters -- Daniel LeDisko and Jo'B -- are also known for their work with
remixes. A-list acts Justice, Method Man and Timbaland regularly call on L.A.
Riots to join them in the recording studio.

"We're a pretty new act, but we've been part of the L.A. scene for six years,"
LeDisko said. "We were drum 'n' bass DJs and then we became producers.

"L.A. is ground zero for music and it's a jump-off point for electro music. So
we get to work and perform in our own backyard."

The DJs use the tracks they've re-worked for famous artists and incorporate them
into the live show.

"We use the mixes to make our own music," LeDisko said. "We've each DJ'd for 15
years and we have a definite signature sound.

"Now we're getting hit up to do remixes for all these acts and we play all over
the world."

LeDisko says L.A. Riots shows are very spontaneous and off the cuff.

"We do what we do and we get a feel for the crowd," LeDisko said. "We never
prepare -- we just do what comes naturally. We never have time to practice."

The DJs have performed for crowds of 20,000 to 40,000 people, so locals will be
in for a treat at the Fox.

The Motet does the Talking Heads

If something works, you have to stick with the plan.

Every Halloween, the Motet comes up with a new band to cover. The group's
already paid tribute to Madonna and Prince, but last October the band really hit
its stride.

The local groove outfit decided to perform its own twist on early Talking Heads
material -- and the show was the highlight of Boulder's infamous Halloween week.

The Motet will now revive the popular concert at the Boulder Theater. Saturday's
show will feature the same crew of top-rate players and the band will close out
2008 in '80s style.

"Every night of the Halloween run sold out," bandleader Dave Watts said. "It was
the perfect storm; we had waited so long to do this and people were ready for
it.

"Definitely having a great line-up of players helped. People were really excited
about the whole thing."

The top-rate players are returning for round two of the Motet's Talking Heads
show. The elite line-up features Kyle Hollingsworth of String Cheese Incident,
Fuzz from Deep Banana Blackout, Jans Ingber and Liza Oxnard.

"There might be some surprise tunes we throw in, but we feel the music worked
out so well the last time," Watts said. "We don't want to mess things up. If it
ain't broke, then don't fix it."

However, there will be a few subtle changes at the Boulder Theater.

The wider Boulder Theater stage will give the players the chance to really move
around and interact.

Colorful lighting effects and wide-screen projections also will accompany the
Talking Heads' music.

"This is going to be a very cool show," Watts said. "We have a great choice of
songs and the players have all made this a very unique show.

"We'll be playing Talking Heads songs from the '70s and '80s," Watts said.
"That's before the band started playing all these pop songs. That didn't get us
excited."

Watts and his band mates have future plans for their Talking Heads tribute
concert. If all goes well, the group hopes to take the show to music festivals
in 2009 and Jam Cruise 2010.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: L.A. Riots perform tonight at the Fox Theatre. Courtesy photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             639 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                           Croydon Advertiser Series

                            August 7, 2014 Thursday

What's to stop it all from coming to a head again?

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 16-17

LENGTH: 477  words


THREE years have passed since the riots and the scars are still evident in the
victims, the businesses and the landscape of Croydon itself.

And in our survey of Advertiser readers' views, you have made it abundantly
clear there is still plenty of work to do to lift the town from its post-riots
gloom.

Promised  compensation has taken longer than expected, work to improve the areas
worst-affected has been slow and a feeling of distrust in the police and other
authorities has emerged.

Out of the 300 people who took part in our survey,  71 per cent feel there could
be another riot on the 2011 scale within the next ten years.

The police response to the riots was heavily criticised as being too soft and,
although official police figures indicate crime has fallen, West Croydon
resident Bushra Ahmed feels the tensions could come to a head again.

She said: "I wouldn't rule out a repeat because the same set of circumstances
are still there with youth unemployment and the other issues that caused the
riots.

"A lot of those people have served their time and are now out and you get the
sense that things are building up again.

"Unless you tackle those issues head on, it is hard to see how things will
change."

Ms Ahmed also made reference to what she referred to as the "waste" of money
given to the borough to help recover from the riots by the Mayor of London Boris
Johnson.

She added: "They threw thousands of pounds at stupid community groups for things
like 'engagement' which did nothing."

But Ms Ahmed did stress some positive aspects, especially the community response
compared to other riot-affected areas like Tottenham and Hackney.

However, 63 per cent of respondents to our survey agreed or strongly agreed that
Croydon's reputation had been irreparably damaged by the riots.

In response to a question about the riot victims, two thirds of you believe not
enough is being done to help them.

Steve Reed, Croydon North MP, said Prime Minister David Cameron and Mr Johnson
had committed to helping Croydon get over the effects of the riots to ensure
there would be no repeat.

He added: "There are still, three years on, a lot of people who feel let down
because these promises made to them have not been met in full."

Binu Mathew was left financially crippled and bloody-faced by rioters after they
destroyed his business Wibi Stores in London Road.

He is now so disillusioned that he has given up all hope of  any form of
resolution to his problems.

Mr Mathew said: "I see all these things in newspapers about how people are being
paid out and they are receiving compensation and liabilities but it is not true.

"I am now just working hard for my family to try and clear debts caused by the
riots. It has not got better in this time."

Perhaps most alarmingly for those striving to improve Croydon's image, 57 per
cent of you say you are not proud to come from the town.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRUSTRATED: Binu Mathew is still trying to clear riot-induced debts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


                             640 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Officers feared for safety: Police review

BYLINE: Mike Raptis, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 556  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


of the NHL Stanley Cup final on June 15. According to post-riot debriefing
session, Vancouver officers felt undermanned.;

Officers caught up in the Stanley Cup riots felt undermanned, unprepared,
unequipped, and ultimately fearful for their safety, according to a post-riot
debriefing session held by Vancouver Police.

The voluminous and transparent VPD Riot Review released on Tuesday documents
what went wrong the night of June 15, with 393 of 928 VPD and RCMP officers -
from the command post to the front line - interviewed internally by a VPD riot
review team and an Integrated Riot Investigation Team.

The officers suggested they responded well to the riots, given the circumstances
- which included command issues, problems in deployment, a lack of training and
equipment, communication breakdowns and a nightmare situation at the Live Site
on Georgia Street.

Despite the assertion by VPD Chief Jim Chu and Insp. Steve Rai that the overall
situation was under control, 50 per cent of the officers polled (129) felt it
had become unmanageable.

Sgt. Howard Chow, a 23year VPD veteran, was part of the crowd control squad
during the riot of 1994 and said Tuesday he and the 10 officers under his
command felt "overwhelmed" with the 155,000 people that showed up at the Live
Site - five times what the VPD expected.

It was almost unanimous (97 per cent) among VPD respondents that there were not
enough resources at the site on Georgia Street, including insufficient (88 per
cent) and ineffective (92 per cent) private security.

Deployment issues resulted in only 29 VPD officers called-out after the 5 p.m.
start of Game 7. But with the situation worsening, 64 VPD officers felt they
were needed and reported for duty without being called in by a superior.

Before the riot even started, 83 per cent of VPD officers felt there weren't
enough of them to handle the teeming crowds. That didn't change much once the
riots erupted, with 82 per cent feeling undermanned as fists, metal projectiles
and bricks rained down on their front lines.

Seventy per cent of RCMP officers de-briefed (28) also felt short on backup.

Situational briefing before Game 7 was also an issue, as just over half of VPD
officers (55 per cent) were briefed on what to expect, and only 39 per cent felt
their briefing was adequate.

Forty-five per cent of officers polled said they felt illequipped to handle the
rioters or the elements.

The lack of equipment included respirators, helmets, radios and handcuffs -
which led to officers unable to be deployed for safety reasons.

Some officers were told not to bring respirators and helmets, while others with
the equipment did not know how to assemble their gas masks - resulting in leaks
and malfunctions.

Rai said safety for his officers was his No. 1 concern, and he had "no desire to
put them in harm's way" if they were not equipped properly.

Even in their riot gear, and with their fellow officers at their side, nearly 40
per cent of officers and Mounties said they did not feel safe.

Of the 606 VPD officers deployed, 22 sustained injuries.

Projectiles or fights with combative rioters caused the majority of the
injuries, including one officer who received 14 stitches and a concussion from a
thrown brick.

Another officer was hit in the neck with a projectile, and three Transit Police
officers were also reported injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reuters; People loot merchandise during a riot after the Vancouver
Canucks' loss to the Boston Bruins in Game 7

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             641 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                              March 3, 2014 Monday

Gujarat riots victims' kin to get 5 years age relaxation in jobs

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, March 3 -- The central government, perhaps for the first time, has
given age relaxation to children and dependents of victims of 2002 Gujarat riots
in jobs of Intelligence Bureau and CISF.

In two separate advertisements, published ahead of the Lok Sabha polls, the home
ministry said that the upper age limit up to five years may be relaxed for
children and dependents of victims in the communal riots of 2002 in Gujarat.

The Intelligence Bureau is seeking applications to fill up 514 posts of security
assistant (executive), general central service, group-c
(non-gazetted/non-ministerial) to be posted across the country.

The last date for receiving online applications for the IB posts was February
17.

The Central Industrial Security Force too is seeking to fill up 123 posts of
constables (bandsman-cum-general duty). The closing date for receipt of
application from the candidates for the CISF posts was February 8.

"The age limit is relaxable for ex-servicemen as well as for candidates who were
domiciled in Jammu & Kashmir from January 1, 1980 to December 31, 1989 and
children and dependents of victims of communal riots of 2002 in Gujarat as per
government instructions in this regard issued from time to time," the
Intelligence Bureau advertisement said.

The CISF advertisement said upper age limit up to 5 years may be relaxed "to the
children and dependents of victims killed in the 1984 riots and communal riots
of 2002 in Gujarat".

The advertisements clarified that children including the adopted son and
daughter and dependent family members like spouse or children besides brother or
sister in case of unmarried victim who were totally dependent on that victim at
the time of his getting killed in the riots are all eligible.

The move to give age relaxation in central government jobs to victims of 2002
Gujarat riots comes just ahead of the announcement of the dates of the general
elections.

The Congress has been highly critical of BJP's prime ministerial candidate
Narendra Modi's role as Gujarat chief minister during the 2002 riots.

Even Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had accused Modi of "presiding" over the
"massacre" of innocent people during the 2002 Gujarat riots.

However, BJP has been defending Modi saying no court has found him guilty in any
riot case.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             642 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday

POLICE AND INSURERS GO TO WAR ON RIOT PAYOUTS

BYLINE: By ALEX HAWKES

LENGTH: 573 words


INSURERS are preparing to launch a wave of litigation against police authorities
after failing to win compensation for damage caused in last year's riots.

One year on, police authorities have declined more than half of claims, and
those insurers with big bills are preparing to take legal action for millions of
pounds, according to senior figures in the industry.

Britain's biggest insurer, Aviva, which insured Reeves, the south London
furniture store burned down during the riots, is one company on a collision
course with police authorities over the claims.

Under the Riot (Damages) Act of 1886, the police are liable for damage caused
during riots. Insurers are paying out to policyholders but then seek to recover
the cost from police.

Police authorities have been turning down claims, saying that in some instances
there was no riot, that interruptions to business are not claimable and that
cars are not covered.

Claims as a result of business interruption are likely to lead to the biggest
losses. The police authorities argue that they are liable only for damage to
property.

If a shop had to close for several weeks after the riot while it was repaired,
the authority's position is that it is not liable for loss of trade, which it
argues should be borne by the insurance industry and not the taxpayer, who
ultimately must foot the bill for any payouts under the Riot (Damages) Act. But
Aviva said: 'We believe that business interruption claims are covered.'

Stuart White, a partner at law firm Reynolds Porter Chamberlain, said: 'I think
business interruption is covered by the Act. There are bound to be cases that
will challenge the police on that,'

Cars are not specifically covered by the Act, but insurance sources said it
could be argued that they fall within its general definitions. 'Any claims to do
with motor vehicles are being declined,' an insurance industry source said.

Some claims are also being turned down because they do not meet the definition
of a riot. The law specifies that there must be more than 12 people 'riotously
and tumultuously assembled'. Insurers are in some instances also expected to
challenge such refusals.

'Some of these claims are for large amounts of money. If you have got big
amounts at stake, you are going to challenge it,' a source said.

A spokesman for the Association of Police Authorities said: 'Our understanding
is that the Act does not allow police authorities to meet claims for business
continuity, damage to cars or claims for damage incurred where the definition of
a riot under the 1986 Public Order Act are not met.'

Insurers are expecting to pay out £200 million in damages as a result of the
riots, having received more than 3,000 claims.

Insurers and police are both pushing separately for reform of the law. The
police argue that insurers should pick up the tab for riot damage while the
industry wants the Government to modernise and clarify the law.

Separately, Britain's biggest insurers will this week reveal how much the floods
earlier this year have cost them.

Barrie Cornes, an analyst at stockbroker Panmure Gordon, said he expected the
bill for Aviva to be £70 million, and £15 million for Legal & General.

Aviva reports first-half figures Thursday while Legal & General will release
them on Tuesday.

Prudential will unveil its interim results on Friday, with an update expected on
whether it intends to base itself abroad to escape strict new solvency rules
imposed by the EU.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             643 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday

Reading the riots: Q&A with Paul Lewis and Tim Newburn

BYLINE: Paul Lewisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 313 words

ABSTRACT

The London School of Economics and the Guardian have been investigating the
causes and consequences of the England riots of 2011. Join our live Q&A with
journalist Paul Lewis and academic Tim Newburn from 12:30 GMT on Wednesday

FULL TEXT

Reading the Riots is an investigation into the causes and consequences of the
England riots of 2011. This week the Guardian and London School of Economics
have been releasing the findings of the first phase of the project, which
involved interviews with 270 rioters across in cities across England. The second
phase will see community debates and confidential interviews with police and
judges.

There are another three days of findings to be published, but already the
project has revealed something of what the rioters think about policing, stop
and search, consumerism, morality, gangs and the Olympics. It has studied the
relevance of poverty and analysed the political grievances of those who took to
the streets. The project has told the stories of looters who were robbed and
victims of the disorder, and shown the journey taken by rioters to the locations
of the disorder.

In total, Reading the Riots researchers collated more than 1.3 million words in
first-person accounts from rioters. Their stories paint a vivid picture of
England's most serious bout of unrest in a generation.

You can see just some of what they have to say on a range of topics in our Quote
Interactive, or listen to the voices of some of the rioters who took part in the
study, in this major film about the project, broadcast on BBC Newsnight. Here
you can read a bit more about the project and the methodology.

· From 12.30am GMT on Wednesday 7 December, the project's leaders, Paul Lewis,
the Guardian's special projects editor, and Prof Tim Newburn of the LSE, will be
live, online, answering your questions. Comments will be open on this blog from
12:15am

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             644 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

What next?

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 523 words

ABSTRACT

The riots have forced us to acknowledge a side of our city we've long preferred
to ignore. We must now confront it constructively.

FULL TEXT

One of the few consolations of the London riots is that, at least for a while,
it's been harder to avert our gaze from the failures of a city that's been too
eager to parade its greatness. As the Mayor has put it, a "big flat rock" has
been turned on over, obliging us to look more closely at "the creepy crawlies"
that have been living underneath it all this time.

The sobering thing is that the more you gaze, the more familiar become the
problems the creepy crawlies personify and, indeed, the range of possible
remedies. Arguments about which of these are best are pretty familiar too, but
there does seem to be a bit of sensible consensus about the range of
constructive measures worth considering: helping chaotic families; improving job
opportunities for people in poor areas; getting to grips with criminal youth
subcultures, including gangs.

I'm hoping that the post-riots debate will focus on these issues and move beyond
its preoccupation with police tactics and numbers. These are relevant, of
course, but you can't build the urban good society by force of uniforms. The
discussion we should be having about the Met would centre on its relationships
with the communities it serves, not on curfews and water cannons.

London has come face-to-face with a side of itself that most of its inhabitants,
like its politicians, have been able to avoid eye contact with for far too long.
We must strive not to make that mistake again.

The Guardian on London













London blogosphereJust in case you thought the battle between cyclists and
Transport for London over Blackfriars Bridge had gone away, here's a broadside
from Cyclists in the City:

Not content with a scheme that is designed to be as anti-walking and
anti-cycling as possible, Transport for London today added some more salt to the
wound at Blackfriars by adding a 'Cyclist Dismount' sign.

Some 36% of traffic passing this point at rush-hour consists of people on
cycles. During the entire day, that's 16% of the total traffic volume. TfL's
contractors are telling thousands and thousands of people who cycle here that
they are supposed to stop, get off their bikes and walk. But where exactly are
they supposed to walk with their cycles?

Now .

Coming upCheck out  and  for things to do over the weekend and beyond. I'll be
peering further into London's post-riots future. Thanks for reading.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             645 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Voters on drip-feed as Iemma pledges water cannon

BYLINE: Andrew Clennell

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 461 words


ANOTHER day, another dripped-out law and order announcement from the NSW
Government.

The Premier, Morris Iemma, announced yesterday the Government would buy a
$700,000 water cannon for the police's riot and public order squad, a year after
the Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney, said introducing such a cannon would be a
sign authorities had "lost the plot".

The pledge came a month after the Government was accused of a stunt, when it
announced the riot squad would trial the use of taser guns.

The head of the riot squad, Chief Superintendent Steve Cullen, revealed
yesterday the taser guns had not yet been tested by his squad, despite the
February 9 announcement they would be trialled over six months.

Last March, Mr Moroney told ABC's Stateline program after the Macquarie Fields
riots: "I think when we've got to the stage of issuing water cannons, sprays,
Mace and these sorts of things, in that sense we've really lost the plot.

"I don't rule those law enforcement tools out. Clearly, in other jurisdictions,
particularly overseas, they are shown to be an effective tool.

"But clearly ... these are tactics which in one sense then really illustrate
that we've lost absolute control."

Asked yesterday how many more law and order announcements were coming before
next year's election, Mr Iemma said "plenty". As to what other equipment the
Government might announce for the riot squad, he said: "Watch this space."

The Government was determined to crack down on antisocial and criminal behaviour
and that meant giving police the necessary powers and resources, Mr Iemma said.

The Opposition's police spokesman, Mike Gallacher, said he expected the
Government to keep "drip-feeding" out riot police announcements because they
were trying to "shut down" the law and order issue.

"Particularly since Cronulla, people are really doubting their ability [on it],"
he said.

A spokesman for Mr Iemma, Ben Wilson, said Mr Moroney's comments on losing the
plot were "before the events of Cronulla and circumstances have changed".

"Post-Cronulla we are in a different environment and the Government believes
it's [the water cannon's] appropriate."

A spokeswoman for Mr Moroney said the commissioner made his comments a year ago
and since then a riot squad had been formed and the commander, Steve Cullen, had
put a wish list of equipment to the minister.

A SHOW OF FORCE

January 20

Middle Eastern organised crime squad to become permanent. Strikeforce increased
to

100 detectives.

January 22

Students forced to sing national anthem under "Respect and Responsibility" plan.

February 5

Parental responsibility contracts introduced in children's courts.

February 7

Taser stun guns to be trialled by riot police.

March 19

Police numbers increased by 750.

March 20

Riot squad to get water cannon (Right).

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             646 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Putin versus Pussy Riot;
Three feminist provocateurs are still in prison over their punk protest against
Vladimir Putin in February. But as Tony Halpin reports from Moscow, they are a
real and growing threat to the returned president's power

BYLINE: Tony Halpin

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1909 words


On the list of serious threats to his authority as Russia's president, Vladimir
Putin is unlikely to have included a bunch of feminist pranksters in DayGlo
balaclavas called Pussy Riot.

He was mistaken. The group's incendiary performance of a "punk prayer" against
him inside Moscow's Christ the Saviour cathedral has become one of those moments
that crystallise a society's discontents. They were 51 seconds that rocked
Russia.

What might have been dismissed as ill-judged high jinks has become Putin's Pussy
Riot problem, a confrontation between repression and freedom that is forcing
many Russians to decide what sort of country they want to live in. The Kremlin
appears bent on making martyrs out of three members of the punk-rock collective
as Putin's third presidential term begins with unprecedented popular unrest over
his rule.

Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 23, Maria Alyokhina, 24, and Yekaterina Samutsevich, 19,
have already spent more than four months in detention, accused of participating
in the protest. They will be sent for trial this week by a Moscow court, charged
with hooliganism, and face up to seven years in jail if convicted.

Putin versus Pussy Riot has all the elements of dramatic absurdity that would
have delighted Gogol or Bulgakov in other times. It is a story of corrupt
autocracy and belief in the cleansing power of art, mixed with religious
controversy over the state of the Russian soul.

It pitches a macho authoritarian who poses topless for publicity stunts against
girl-power provocateurs who wear masks as feminist statements against sexism.
The dour former KGB spy whose mantra is "stability" confronts anarchic musicians
who scream "riot, riot" outside the Kremlin gates.

"Nobody has any doubt that Putin personally is going to decide their sentence,"
Pyotr Verzilov, Tolokonnikova's husband, told me. Their daughter Gera, 4, has
not seen her mother since Tolokonnikova was arrested on the street at gunpoint
by 30 officers from the Federal Security Service (FSB), the successor to the
Soviet KGB, on March 3.

"I explain it to her like a fairytale, with bad guys locking up the princess in
their castle and the battle to rescue her. When people ask Gera, she replies
that Putin has locked Mama in a cage and we have to free her," said Verzilov,
who has been refused visits to see his wife five times by prison authorities,
even though it is his right under Russian law.

Alyokhina has a son, Philip, aged 5. Russian courts normally place mothers of
small children on bail during criminal investigations, but judges have rejected
all pleas to release Pussy Riot. Police have built a staggering 2,800-page case
file against them that fills seven thick volumes.

The women's detention has been extended repeatedly during this process. They
have been brought to court each time in the sort of security operation reserved
for terrorist suspects, emerging tightly handcuffed from separate custody vans
and under armed guard to appear individually before the judge. Back in prison
they are kept isolated from each other, placed under constant video surveillance
and subjected to "informal" talks with FSB agents who demand that they confess
their guilt.

The harassment has transformed Pussy Riot from marginal irritant to
international cultural phenomenon, a band whose name has launched a thousand
quips and created awkward moments for TV and radio commentators. (Pussy Riot
lacks the same sexual frisson in Russian, leading even senior politicians to
discuss them with a straight face).

Every court appearance has been met by a chaotic media scrum and a swelling
crowd of protesters, angered by the evident overkill of the State's treatment of
three slight young women. Mounting disquiet prompted 120 of Russia's leading
cultural figures to pen an open letter calling for their release.

"The criminal case against Pussy Riot compromises the Russian judicial system
and undermines trust in the authorities," they wrote in a letter signed by
actors, writers, musicians, ballet dancers and film and theatre directors.

"While the participants in the action have been held under arrest, an atmosphere
of intolerance has grown in society which will cause division and radicalism ...
We believe that the actions of Pussy Riot are not criminal. The girls killed no
one, stole from nobody, carried out no violence."

Signatories included prominent Putin critics such as rock singer Yuri Shevchuk
and novelist Boris Akunin, but also people who had campaigned for his election
victory, such as the acclaimed actress Chulpan Khamatova and film director
Fyodor Bondarchuk. A copy of the letter on the website of the independent Ekho
Moskvy radio has been signed by 40,000 people.

Calls to "free Pussy Riot" have gone global. Amnesty International declared them
prisoners of conscience, while protests have been held outside Russian
diplomatic missions in London, Berlin, New York, San Francisco and Sydney.

Pussy Riot have provoked powerful forces, however, chief among them Patriarch
Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church. Three weeks after their arrest,
Kirill delivered a sermon denouncing the "blasphemous" protest and those in the
Church who were urging him to support clemency for the women.

Declaring that "the Devil laughed at us" during the cathedral performance, the
Patriarch said: "There are those who would justify and minimise this sacrilege
... It makes my heart bleed with sorrow that among these people there are those
who call themselves Orthodox Christians."

Many Orthodox believers were appalled by the stunt, but also have grown
uncomfortable at the apparent absence of Christian forgiveness in the Church
hierarchy. That unease deepened when the Church's spokesman, Vsevolod Chaplin,
claimed last month to have received a divine revelation that the group's "sin
will be punished in this life and the next".

"God revealed this to me just like He revealed the Gospels to the Church,"
Chaplin said. Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri Rogozin, who has a powerful following
among Russian nationalists, accused the women of holding a coven in a holy
place, adding a spectre of witchcraft to the controversy.

Similar language crept into the announcement by the office of the
prosecutor-general that the case was being sent for trial, saying that Pussy
Riot had "caused significant damage to the sacred values of the church ... and
in a blasphemous manner disgraced the ancient foundations of the Russian
Orthodox Church".

Kirill has been under attack in Russia for an allegedly extravagant lifestyle
and an embarrassing episode with a doctored photograph that showed he had lied
about never wearing a £20,000 Swiss watch. He had every reason to condemn Pussy
Riot because his open endorsement of Putin during the election was the stated
target of the group's "punk prayer" on February 21, two weeks before polling
day.

The lyrics included "Mother of God, drive Putin out!" and "Patriarch ...
believes in Putin. Bitch, better believe in God instead." Pussy Riot also sang
"Mary mother of God is with us at the protests", a retort to the Patriarch's
declaration that "Orthodox people can't go to demonstrations".

Video of the incident has been seen 1.4 million times on YouTube, with added
footage of the group playing guitar. It shows four masked women dancing on the
pulpit then kneeling and crossing themselves as startled nuns and security
guards attempt to drag them away. The detainees admit to being members of the
Pussy Riot collective but deny being present in the cathedral, and a fourth
person has never been arrested.

Putin openly expresses his religious faith and has made the support of the
Orthodox Church a vital pillar of his rule. Though Russia is a secular state,
the Kremlin has granted enormous privileges to the Church, whose leadership has
responded by urging the faithful to express loyalty to the regime.

Pussy Riot challenged all of that and Church and State are combining to crush
their impudence as a lesson for others. Their fate has become emblematic of a
wider crackdown initiated by Putin since he returned to the presidency in May.
Laws have been introduced to label non-governmental organisations as "foreign
agents", re-criminalise libel, block access to "extremist" websites and impose
crippling fines for "unsanctioned" protests.

Pussy Riot itself was born in response to Putin's decision last September to
elbow aside his hand-picked predecessor Dmitri Medvedev and reclaim the
presidency for up to 12 more years. It was the moment that shattered many
people's illusions about the possibility of democratic reform in Russia.

Pussy Riot staged guerrilla street gigs against the "evil crooks of the Putinist
junta", citing influences ranging from Emmeline Pankhurst and Simone de Beauvoir
to Sham 69 and the Riot Grrrl movement of the 1990s, which inspired their name.
Membership grew to some 30 activists, their identities hidden by neon ski masks
and nicknames, and each performance was posted online.

When charismatic anticorruption activist Alexei Navalny was jailed with other
opposition leaders for protesting rigged parliamentary elections in December,
Pussy Riot scaled the roof of the detention centre and sang "Death to Prison -
Freedom to Protest" as the imprisoned activists cheered.

Their raid on Red Square in January to sing Putin's Pissed Himself embodied the
spirit of rebellion in the air weeks after 100,000 people had frightened the
authorities with the largest antigovernment demonstration for 20 years. Here was
the heart of the regime, one of the most tightly guarded places in Russia, and
Pussy Riot were at the Kremlin walls, calling for revolution.

"A rioting march is approaching the Kremlin. Windows are exploding in FSB
offices. The bitches got scared behind those red walls," they sang as they waved
smoke flares in front of stunned police. "Attack at sunrise, I won't be against
it. For our freedom - punish with a whip. The Holy Madonna will teach us to
fight.

"Rebellion in Russia, the charisma of protest. Rebellion in Russia, Putin pissed
himself. Rebellion in Russia, we exist. Rebellion in Russia - riot, riot!"

That protest made headlines around the world and the video went viral,
attracting more than 500,000 views. Suddenly, Putin's all-powerful police state
looked weak and vulnerable.

Lawyers for the three women believe that they will now be made to pay the price
for such defiance. Violetta Volkova, Samutsevich's lawyer, said: "I am not at
all optimistic ... They will be found guilty even though there's no evidence of
a crime."

Verzilov, co-founder of Voina (War), another radical art collective known for
imaginative anti-Putin protests, fears that his wife and her friends could get
"three years of real prison". He added: "That would cause shocking damage to the
image of Russia and of Putin in the eyes of very many people."

There lies Putin's Pussy Riot risk: harsh punishment could provoke a backlash
that broadens sympathy for the anti-Kremlin opposition.

"There is a 99.5 per cent rejection of the girls being in prison. There are very
different opinions on whether the action in the church was acceptable or
unacceptable, but hardly anyone has any doubt about whether they should be in
prison," said Verzilov.

"You could expect to get arrested for doing something illegal or destruction of
property but nobody could expect to be arrested for a clip of girls supposedly
doing a punk prayer in a church."

"Nobody doubts that Putin will personally decide their sentence

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pussy Riot in Red Square in January, and, above, band members, from
left, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria Alyokhina and Yekaterina Samutsevich
Pussy Riot at the Christ the Saviour cathedral; Maria Alyokhina, left, and
Yekaterina Samutsevich during court hearings; Pyotr Verzilov, below
FRONT COVER: ALEXANDER NEMENOV/AFP/GETTY IMAGES, BELOW: DENIS SINYAKOV AND
SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS, SERGEY PONOMAREV/AP, MAXIM SHIPENKOV/EPA, CAMERA PRESS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             647 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Putin versus Pussy Riot;
Three feminist provocateurs are still in prison over their punk protest against
Vladimir Putin in February. But as Tony Halpin reports from Moscow, they are a
real and growing threat to the returned president's power

BYLINE: Tony Halpin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42,43

LENGTH: 1909 words


On the list of serious threats to his authority as Russia's president, Vladimir
Putin is unlikely to have included a bunch of feminist pranksters in DayGlo
balaclavas called Pussy Riot.

He was mistaken. The group's incendiary performance of a "punk prayer" against
him inside Moscow's Christ the Saviour cathedral has become one of those moments
that crystallise a society's discontents. They were 51 seconds that rocked
Russia.

What might have been dismissed as ill-judged high jinks has become Putin's Pussy
Riot problem, a confrontation between repression and freedom that is forcing
many Russians to decide what sort of country they want to live in. The Kremlin
appears bent on making martyrs out of three members of the punk-rock collective
as Putin's third presidential term begins with unprecedented popular unrest over
his rule.

Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 23, Maria Alyokhina, 24, and Yekaterina Samutsevich, 19,
have already spent more than four months in detention, accused of participating
in the protest. They will be sent for trial this week by a Moscow court, charged
with hooliganism, and face up to seven years in jail if convicted.

Putin versus Pussy Riot has all the elements of dramatic absurdity that would
have delighted Gogol or Bulgakov in other times. It is a story of corrupt
autocracy and belief in the cleansing power of art, mixed with religious
controversy over the state of the Russian soul.

It pitches a macho authoritarian who poses topless for publicity stunts against
girl-power provocateurs who wear masks as feminist statements against sexism.
The dour former KGB spy whose mantra is "stability" confronts anarchic musicians
who scream "riot, riot" outside the Kremlin gates.

"Nobody has any doubt that Putin personally is going to decide their sentence,"
Pyotr Verzilov, Tolokonnikova's husband, told me. Their daughter Gera, 4, has
not seen her mother since Tolokonnikova was arrested on the street at gunpoint
by 30 officers from the Federal Security Service (FSB), the successor to the
Soviet KGB, on March 3. "I explain it to her like a fairytale, with bad guys
locking up the princess in their castle and the battle to rescue her. When
people ask Gera, she replies that Putin has locked Mama in a cage and we have to
free her," said Verzilov, who has been refused visits to see his wife five times
by prison authorities, even though it is his right under Russian law.

Alyokhina has a son, Philip, aged 5. Russian courts normally place mothers of
small children on bail during criminal investigations, but judges have rejected
all pleas to release Pussy Riot. Police have built a staggering 2,800-page case
file against them that fills seven thick volumes.

The women's detention has been extended repeatedly during this process. They
have been brought to court each time in the sort of security operation reserved
for terrorist suspects, emerging tightly handcuffed from separate custody vans
and under armed guard to appear individually before the judge. Back in prison
they are kept isolated from each other, placed under constant video surveillance
and subjected to "informal" talks with FSB agents who demand that they confess
their guilt.

The harassment has transformed Pussy Riot from marginal irritant to
international cultural phenomenon, a band whose name has launched a thousand
quips and created awkward moments for TV and radio commentators. (Pussy Riot
lacks the same sexual frisson in Russian, leading even senior politicians to
discuss them with a straight face).

Every court appearance has been met by a chaotic media scrum and a swelling
crowd of protesters, angered by the evident overkill of the State's treatment of
three slight young women. Mounting disquiet prompted 120 of Russia's leading
cultural figures to pen an open letter calling for their release.

"The criminal case against Pussy Riot compromises the Russian judicial system
and undermines trust in the authorities," they wrote in a letter signed by
actors, writers, musicians, ballet dancers and film and theatre directors.

"While the participants in the action have been held under arrest, an atmosphere
of intolerance has grown in society which will cause division and radicalism ...
We believe that the actions of Pussy Riot are not criminal. The girls killed no
one, stole from nobody, carried out no violence."

Signatories included prominent Putin critics such as rock singer Yuri Shevchuk
and novelist Boris Akunin, but also people who had campaigned for his election
victory, such as the acclaimed actress Chulpan Khamatova and film director
Fyodor Bondarchuk. A copy of the letter on the website of the independent Ekho
Moskvy radio has been signed by 40,000 people.

Calls to "free Pussy Riot" have gone global. Amnesty International declared them
prisoners of conscience, while protests have been held outside Russian
diplomatic missions in London, Berlin, New York, San Francisco and Sydney.

Pussy Riot have provoked powerful forces, however, chief among them Patriarch
Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church. Three weeks after their arrest,
Kirill delivered a sermon denouncing the "blasphemous" protest and those in the
Church who were urging him to support clemency for the women.

Declaring that "the Devil laughed at us" during the cathedral performance, the
Patriarch said: "There are those who would justify and minimise this sacrilege
... It makes my heart bleed with sorrow that among these people there are those
who call themselves Orthodox Christians."

Many Orthodox believers were appalled by the stunt, but also have grown
uncomfortable at the apparent absence of Christian forgiveness in the Church
hierarchy. That unease deepened when the Church's spokesman, Vsevolod Chaplin,
claimed last month to have received a divine revelation that the group's "sin
will be punished in this life and the next".

"God revealed this to me just like He revealed the Gospels to the Church,"
Chaplin said. Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri Rogozin, who has a powerful following
among Russian nationalists, accused the women of holding a coven in a holy
place, adding a spectre of witchcraft to the controversy.

Similar language crept into the announcement by the office of the
prosecutor-general that the case was being sent for trial, saying that Pussy
Riot had "caused significant damage to the sacred values of the church ... and
in a blasphemous manner disgraced the ancient foundations of the Russian
Orthodox Church".

Kirill has been under attack in Russia for an allegedly extravagant lifestyle
and an embarrassing episode with a doctored photograph that showed he had lied
about never wearing a £20,000 Swiss watch. He had every reason to condemn Pussy
Riot because his open endorsement of Putin during the election was the stated
target of the group's "punk prayer" on February 21, two weeks before polling
day.

The lyrics included "Mother of God, drive Putin out!" and "Patriarch ...
believes in Putin. Bitch, better believe in God instead." Pussy Riot also sang
"Mary mother of God is with us at the protests", a retort to the Patriarch's
declaration that "Orthodox people can't go to demonstrations".

Video of the incident has been seen 1.4 million times on YouTube, with added
footage of the group playing guitar. It shows four masked women dancing on the
pulpit then kneeling and crossing themselves as startled nuns and security
guards attempt to drag them away. The detainees admit to being members of the
Pussy Riot collective but deny being present in the cathedral, and a fourth
person has never been arrested.

Putin openly expresses his religious faith and has made the support of the
Orthodox Church a vital pillar of his rule. Though Russia is a secular state,
the Kremlin has granted enormous privileges to the Church, whose leadership has
responded by urging the faithful to express loyalty to the regime.

Pussy Riot challenged all of that and Church and State are combining to crush
their impudence as a lesson for others. Their fate has become emblematic of a
wider crackdown initiated by Putin since he returned to the presidency in May.
Laws have been introduced to label non-governmental organisations as "foreign
agents", re-criminalise libel, block access to "extremist" websites and impose
crippling fines for "unsanctioned" protests.

Pussy Riot itself was born in response to Putin's decision last September to
elbow aside his hand-picked predecessor Dmitri Medvedev and reclaim the
presidency for up to 12 more years. It was the moment that shattered many
people's illusions about the possibility of democratic reform in Russia.

Pussy Riot staged guerrilla street gigs against the "evil crooks of the Putinist
junta", citing influences ranging from Emmeline Pankhurst and Simone de Beauvoir
to Sham 69 and the Riot Grrrl movement of the 1990s, which inspired their name.
Membership grew to some 30 activists, their identities hidden by neon ski masks
and nicknames, and each performance was posted online.

When charismatic anticorruption activist Alexei Navalny was jailed with other
opposition leaders for protesting rigged parliamentary elections in December,
Pussy Riot scaled the roof of the detention centre and sang "Death to Prison -
Freedom to Protest" as the imprisoned activists cheered.

Their raid on Red Square in January to sing Putin's Pissed Himself embodied the
spirit of rebellion in the air weeks after 100,000 people had frightened the
authorities with the largest antigovernment demonstration for 20 years. Here was
the heart of the regime, one of the most tightly guarded places in Russia, and
Pussy Riot were at the Kremlin walls, calling for revolution.

"A rioting march is approaching the Kremlin. Windows are exploding in FSB
offices. The bitches got scared behind those red walls," they sang as they waved
smoke flares in front of stunned police. "Attack at sunrise, I won't be against
it. For our freedom - punish with a whip. The Holy Madonna will teach us to
fight.

"Rebellion in Russia, the charisma of protest. Rebellion in Russia, Putin pissed
himself. Rebellion in Russia, we exist. Rebellion in Russia - riot, riot!" That
protest made headlines around the world and the video went viral, attracting
more than 500,000 views. Suddenly, Putin's all-powerful police state looked weak
and vulnerable.

Lawyers for the three women believe that they will now be made to pay the price
for such defiance. Violetta Volkova, Samutsevich's lawyer, said: "I am not at
all optimistic ... They will be found guilty even though there's no evidence of
a crime."

Verzilov, co-founder of Voina (War), another radical art collective known for
imaginative anti-Putin protests, fears that his wife and her friends could get
"three years of real prison". He added: "That would cause shocking damage to the
image of Russia and of Putin in the eyes of very many people."

There lies Putin's Pussy Riot risk: harsh punishment could provoke a backlash
that broadens sympathy for the anti-Kremlin opposition.

"There is a 99.5 per cent rejection of the girls being in prison. There are very
different opinions on whether the action in the church was acceptable or
unacceptable, but hardly anyone has any doubt about whether they should be in
prison," said Verzilov.

"You could expect to get arrested for doing something illegal or destruction of
property but nobody could expect to be arrested for a clip of girls supposedly
doing a punk prayer in a church."

Nobody doubts that Putin will personally decide their sentence

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pussy Riot in Red Square in January, and, above, band members, from
left, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria Alyokhina and Yekaterina Samutsevich
Pussy Riot at the Christ the Saviour cathedral; Maria Alyokhina, left, and
Yekaterina Samutsevich during court hearings; Pyotr Verzilov, below
FRONT COVER: ALEXANDER NEMENOV/AFP/GETTY IMAGES, BELOW: DENIS SINYAKOV AND
SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS, SERGEY PONOMAREV/AP, MAXIM SHIPENKOV/EPA, CAMERA PRESS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             648 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Sunday Guardian (India)

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

Muslims get carrot, stick from Akhilesh

LENGTH: 629  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Jan. 4 -- The Samajwadi Party and the Akhilesh Yadav government in
Uttar Pradesh have developed a carrot-and-stick approach when dealing with the
state's Muslim minority - carrots for the rich and educated Muslims,
particularly clerics, and a tough stick for the poor masses in the community.
The party sincerely believes that this strange policy will pay rich dividends in
the coming Lok Sabha elections.

In the past few weeks, UP Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav and his father Mulayam
Singh Yadav, who heads the Samajwadi Party, have been rather cruel towards the
Muslim masses but have spared no efforts to pamper the affluent Muslims. The
carrot-and-stick policy unfolded recently when Mulayam Singh Yadav issued a
statement that those living in the riot relief camps in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli
districts of the state were not riot victims but were riot conspirators. "They
belong to the Congress and the BJP and are being paid to continue living there,"
he said at a party meeting.

The state administration took a cue from the senior Yadav's remarks and ordered
a crackdown on relief camps. Hundreds of Muslim families that had lost all in
the riot were, once again rendered homeless in the winter chill. Bulldozers
flattened the tents and the riot-affected families' hopes too.

Ishrat Jahan, one of the riot victims, sobbed bitterly as she stood with three
children by her side and a seven-month-old infant in her arms. She had lost her
husband to the riots, her house was burnt down and now she has nowhere to go.
"They could at least have waited for winter to get over. Where will I go with my
children?" she cried.

While the riot victims are being further victimised, those who allegedly
instigated the riots are being allowed to roam free. The Akhilesh government is
simultaneously doling out sops to the rich and powerful amongst the minority.
The Uttar Pradesh government is preparing to withdraw a case of provoking
violence through inflammatory speeches that was filed against Muslim leaders,
including BSP MP Qadir Rana, during the Muzaffarnagar riots.

According to official sources, the Law Department has asked the district
magistrate to send a report on withdrawal of the case filed against the minority
leaders for allegedly inciting violence by making inflammatory speeches in a
panchayat meeting at Khala Par that later led to the riots.

The case was filed against BSP MP Qadir Rana, MLAs Noor Saleem and Maulana
Jameel Ahmad, former Congress minister Saeed-uz-Zaman and his son Salman Saeed,
community leaders Asad Zama, Naushad Qureshi, trader Ahsan, advocate Sultan
Mashir and others. These Muslim leaders will soon be absolved of all crime,
while innocent Muslims will continue to pay the price of mindless violence.

The clerics of various sects and schools are regularly felicitated at the Chief
Minister's residence and their photographs are posted to the media. Two retired
Muslim journalists have been honoured with ministerial berths in the state
government. The state government has done another impossible feat; that of
posting Muslim officers to the posts of chief secretary and DGP. Officers of the
same caste or community have never before in the state's history, occupied the
two coveted posts at the same time.

A senior Muslim minister in the UP government explained the carrot and stick
policy thus: "It is the clerics who arrange for votes in the community and we
cannot ignore them. By giving important positions and posts to Muslims, we are
sending out a clear message to the community that it is the SP alone that cares
for you."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Sunday Guardian. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Sunday Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved


                             649 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            January 28, 2014 Tuesday

It's a war of words between Rahul, Modi

LENGTH: 661  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 28 -- Arvind Kejriwal called him a "moron" and the BJP jeered at
the Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi, but his interview to a television
channel on Monday evening has put the spotlight back on the riot-taint on
Narendra Modi.


 The principal opposition party has so far carefully managed the election
campaign for its prime ministerial candidate to avoid any references to the 2002
anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat. The focus has been on development and traditional
bijli-sadak-pani issues, with Modi trumpeting his track record and projecting
Gujarat as a dream model.
 Just as the campaign enters a critical phase, Rahul Gandhi, who has so far
avoided any direct references to Modi, accused the BJP's PM candidate of
"abetting and pushing the riots."
 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)'s leader Arvind Kejriwal was the first off the block
re-tweeting a comment that ruffled feathers both in the Congress and the BJP.
"Stuck between a moron and a murderer, what now India"? The Bihar Chief Minister
Nitish Kumar followed, holding both the Congress and the BJP responsible for
various communal riots. "Congress Governments at the Centre and Bihar were
responsible for the anti-Sikh riots in 1984 and Bhagalpur riots in 1989, while
the BJP Government in Gujarat was accountable for the 2002 riots.
 Dynasty politics
 The BJP was pushed to discuss the issue although with Rahul Gandhi's careful
references to the 1984 riots, the party found easy comparisons to draw. Senior
spokesperson Ravi Shankar Prasad said the Congress Vice-President was
"ludicrous" in his various assertions, especially when it comes to democracy and
dynasty politics. "Rahul Gandhi is ludicrous. How is someone, whose very
rationale for existence on the political landscape is dynasty, trying to become
a champion of democracy? The irony doesn't seem to strike him." Prasad then went
on to castigate the Congress Vice-President for spreading "lies and falsehood"
about the communal riots in Gujarat.
 "His (Rahul Gandhi's) allegations against the Gujarat Government about
encouraging riots in 2002 not only show his ignorance but amount to rank
falsehood. The Gujarat Government did its best to prevent riots, and the SIT
constituted by the Supreme Court after extensive investigations, found all the
motivated allegations against Narendra Modi to be false and baseless. Today,
there is peace and amity in Gujarat and many persons have been convicted,"
Prasad said.
 Jaitley blogs
 Senior leader Arun Jaitley wrote a blog underlining what he termed was the
Congress's inaction and abetment to the anti-Sikh riots in 1984, opposed to the
Gujarat Government's presumed alacrity in saving lives during the anti-Muslim
riots in 2002.
 "In 1984, a slogan Khoon ka Badla Khoon (blood-for-blood) started in the
afternoon on October 31 at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences where Mrs
Gandhi's body lay. Congress leaders were seen leading the mobs. Sikhs were
massacred at thousands of places. Nowhere did the police fire a single bullet to
disperse mobs. Cases were not investigated. A Commission of Inquiry was
constituted which came with a sham report. The Judge heading the Commission was
subsequently elected to the Rajya Sabha by the Congress," Jaitley wrote.
 "In Gujarat, thousands of people were arrested. The badly over-stretched police
fired at several places. Almost 300 rioters were killed in police firing.
Thousands of prosecutions were filed. Hundreds of people have been sentenced.
The Chief Minister personally went through several inquiries including the
Supreme Court constituted SIT and no evidence was found against him," he argued.

 Negative impact
 Arguments aside, the BJP did not believe that the issue will have any negative
impact on the election campaign.
 "The riots are a closed chapter. Modi has now become Vikas Purush (development
man) in popular consciousness. Rahul Gandhi's interview exposes him more than it
undermines Modi's credential," said a senior BJP leader.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             650 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 The New Review

                                November 4, 2007
                                 First Edition

Babydolls, lipstick and bovver boots;
Beth Ditto is redefining femininity for a whole new generation. But, as she
admits, she owes the look to the originators of girl power - the Riot Grrrls of
the 1990s

BYLINE: words by Glenn Waldron

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 792 words


One of the most incendiary counter-cultural movements of the 1990s, the Riot
Grrrl phenomenon was proud, political and seriously pissed-off. Acting as a
rallying cry for young, third-wave feminists, it was a short-lived yet potent
mix of cultural sloganeering, DIY art and consciously scrappy punk-rock that
divided critics and incensed tabloids (one British newspaper memorably dubbed
the group "Feminazis"). Bands such as Bikini Kill, Bratmobile and Huggy Bear
became the poster children for a new generation of angry young girls, united in
their disaffection for mainstream music, style and art.

"It came out of this total frustration with the way things were," recalls Nadine
Monem, editor of the recently published book Riot Grrrl: Revolution Girl Style
Now! "We wanted to create a new voice."

Initially focused around the small university town of Olympia, Washington - home
to Bikini Kill, Bratmobile and the highly influential K Records - the Riot Grrrl
message soon spread across America and then to the UK in the early 1990s.

"I was probably 13 or 14 when I first heard the term 'Riot Grrrl'," says the
Canadian-born Monem. "I remember being incredibly excited because suddenly it
felt like there was this freedom for young girls such as myself to make their
own culture and music."

Like many of her peers, Monem set about creating her own fanzine and began
corresponding with like-minded individuals across the globe. "Because there was
no internet, the culture was very grass-roots and epistolary," explains Suzy
Corrigan, one of four writers who recall their Riot Grrrl experiences in the
book. "You would often find yourself writing to people 4,000 miles away who were
fired up about similar ideas."

In contrast to most major musical movements, the Riot Grrrls rejected the idea
of a single, uniform look, although Monem concedes that there were clear "family
resemblances" at the time. The DIY, cut-and-paste style of the zines was a
definite influence on the fashion style, as was the omnipresence of grunge. "It
was all about picking up on the costume or theatricality of femininity - red
lipstick, babydoll dresses - but then imbuing it with a new meaning," she
explains. "As if to say, 'Yeah, we're girly but we're also very strong.'"

With Bikini Kill's occasional topless performances garnering massive media
attention, the Riot Grrrl look was emphatically provocative. "You could look
like anything you wanted," says Corrigan. "The cliche was plastic hairslides and
magic-markering your body with various slogans, but sometimes it could be very
confrontational."

Stressing the importance of the message over the medium, the Riot Grrrls had a
typically democratic approach to their music. This was punk-rock, after all (the
book records the rather telling story of Huggy Bear's first drummer, who quit
when the band refused to practice any song more than twice).

"Musical proficiency was not an issue," explains Corrigan. "Most of the bands
were experimental or happy to learn as they went along." Having performed
spoken-word pieces with Huggy Bear, Corrigan refutes the idea that the Riot
Grrrl bands were mostly rather tuneless operations. "There were plenty of
tunes," she laughs. "Maybe the postman wasn't humming them, but we were."

Alongside Huggy Bear - who were famously ejected from Channel 4's late-night
smut-rave The Word, when their fans instigated a riot against a taped interview
with Playboy models the Barbie Twins - British Riot Grrrl groups such as Voodoo
Queens, Linus and Mambo Taxi all achieved significant underground success in the
early 1990s. Yet as the decade progressed, the movement rapidly ran out of
steam. "I think there was a lot of scene-fatigue," says Corrigan. "We basically
grew up and found other ways to apply feminism." It probably didn't help that
the language of the Riot Grrrls was fast being adopted by the mainstream. "The
Spice Girls became the ambassadors of 'Girl Power'," says Monem, drily.
"Suddenly we couldn't use the same words any more."

More than a decade on, however, and Monem believes the Riot Grrrl legacy is
still evolving. "The moment has passed but the sentiment still exists," she
says. Citing performers such as The Gossip's Beth Ditto, Peaches, Karen O of the
Yeah Yeah Yeahs, The Donnas and Electrelane, and also the recent resurgence in
feminist-oriented zines such as Pamflet, Uplift! and Subtext, Monem argues that
Riot Grrrl's influence on both mainstream and underground culture continues to
be felt. As Ditto herself says in her introduction to the book, "Riot Grrrl made
it possible for me to get up in the morning and say to myself, 'I can do
anything I want.' It gave a sound to feminist frustration." n

'Riot Grrrl' by Nadine Monem (Black Dog

Publishers, £19.95) is out now

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SR


                      Copyright 2007 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             651 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 18, 2007 Thursday

China to send more riot police on UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["China To Send More Riot Police on UN Peacekeeping Mission in Haiti" - Xinhua
headline]

Beijing, Oct. 18 (Xinhua) - China is to send its sixth riot squad to Haiti in
December on a peacekeeping mission for the United Nations, the Chinese Ministry
of Public Security (MPS) said here Thursday.

The riot police, all from southwest China's Yunnan Province and mostly anti-drug
trafficking police officers, are now receiving training in peacekeeping
knowledge, language, driving, shooting and tactics, according to the MPS.

So far, China has sent a total of five riot squads of 625 police over the last
three years to Haiti since the first riot squad of 125 members was sent there in
October 2004, said Meng Hongwei, vice minister of public security.

In addition to regular patrols, Chinese riot police also rescued hostages,
searched for suspects and offered security safeguards during elections, Meng
said.

"All the Chinese riot police in Haiti have won UN peace medals for their
outstanding performance on the peacekeeping mission," he said.

Besides riot police serving in Haiti, since January 2000 China has sent 430
police on UN peacekeeping missions to countries and regions including East
Timor, Bosnia and Hercegovina, Kosovo, Liberia, Afghanistan, Haiti and Sudan.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0756 gmt 18 Oct 07

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             652 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday

' Maulana' Mulayam soothes riot victims

BYLINE: By Piyush Srivastava in Lucknow

LENGTH: 397  words


UNDER ATTACK from various quarters for allegedly ignoring the plight of
riotaffected people in Muzaffarnagar, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav and
Samajwadi Party ( SP) supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav on Tuesday met a delegation of
Muslim leaders and victims, and heard their grievances.

The delegation, comprising Jamiat Ulama- i- Hind president Maulana Arshad Madani
and several other Muslim clerics and riot victims, called on the two leaders and
demanded compensation for the families of those who have been missing in the
aftermath of the communal violence of August- September 2013.

" We have demanded the state government to look into the case of riot victims
sympathetically, treat those missing as dead and give compensation to their
families," said SP leader Ashu Malik, who led the delegation.

Maulana Arshad Madni said both Mulayam and Akhilesh assured them that their
demands will be looked into. " We appreciate the work done by the state
government for Muzaffarnagar riot victims.... We, however, have some demands
like compensation and government job for the kin of missing people, as announced
in case of those who died," said Madni, who believes that Muzaffarnagar riots
occurred due to failure of the local administration.

Another section of Muslim clerics, however, slammed the SP leaders' "
hobnobbing" with some leaders of the community as a " political gimmick".
Maulana Amir Rashid Madani, a leader of Ulema Council, compared the Akhilesh
government with the Narendra Modi government in Gujarat.

" Those organisations which want to pardon Modi for 2002 riots in Gujarat are
also close to Akhilesh. We believe that Muzaffarnagar riots were not much
different from Gujarat riots. A few maulanas may pardon Mulayam and Akhilesh but
the Muslims of the state have seen the real face of the SP government.

We will give our reply at the polling booth," he said. " Government- sponsored
riots rendered thousands of Muslims homeless but these people have no time to
solve their problems." Noted Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad said, " Every
organisation and political party is trying to cheat the riot victims. None of
them is honestly interested in improving the life of refugees. Their children
are still dying in refugee camps. But the government is driving them away and
forcing them to spend nights under the open sky. We should have refrained from
doing this kind of politics."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             653 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

SM rebuts claims that riots did not involve Umno

                               September 25, 1998


He had successfully sued an Umno leader and Utusan Melayu in 1965 for
allegations made against him

SENIOR Minister Lee Kuan Yew has refuted statements by two prominent Malaysians
who maintained that Umno was not involved in the 1964 racial riots here.

His reply, released yesterday, also noted that he sued an Umno leader, Mr
Ja'afar Albar, and the Utusan Melayu newspaper for alleging that he could have
unwittingly instigated the tension leading to the riots.

The legal action was taken in April 1965 while Singapore was still part of
Malaysia. The Umno leader and the Malay language newspaper apologised in open
court here and paid all the costs of the action. Mr Lee waived his damages, his
press secretary, Madam Yeong Yoon Ying, wrote in the letter to The Sun newspaper
in Malaysia.

Its Sunday edition last week published the allegation against Mr Lee, which was
repeated by Malaysian historian Professor Nik Anuar Nik Mahmud.

It also carried the remarks by Tan Sri Abdul Aziz Zain, one of the four judges
of the Royal Commission of Inquiry, on the race riots.

He had said, among other things, that the riots were caused by a Chinese
prankster, not the Malays.

Both Tan Sri Abdul Aziz and Professor Nik Anuar were commenting on the SM's
version of the riots in his recent book: The Singapore Story: Memoirs of Lee
Kuan Yew. In the letter, Madam Yeong noted that the issue was not the immediate
trigger that let loose the riots, but who had created "the tinder box atmosphere
for the explosion".

Mr Ja'afar and Utusan had created this incendiary situation and the former did
not have to be present to strike that spark.

Transcripts and newspaper reports of these speeches were presented to the
commission together with the memorandum from the Singapore Government.

Referring to Tan Sri Abdul Aziz's comment on the Chinese prankster causing the
riots, Madam Yeong noted that Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Tun Abdul Razak
had also said this here on July 22, 1964, one day after the riots took place.

But this was never substantiated before the commission, she said, adding that
the Federal government's case was that the riots were the work of Indonesian
agents, not that of a prankster.

In his memoirs, Mr Lee wrote in pages 567 and 568: "In his opening address,
counsel for the Malaysian government said he would show that the two
disturbances (two riots in July and September 1964) were the work of Indonesian
agents in Singapore. He had subpoenaed 85 witnesses to provide the evidence of
this, but the evidence of the five main witnesses he produced did not show that
it was so.

"All of them firmly denied that Indonesia was in any way connected with the
disturbances."

Pages 662 to 663 read: " ... If we had remained in Malaysia, the commission of
inquiry into 1964 race riots would continue to hear damaging evidence against
Ja'afar Albar and Umno, which would receive widespread publicity.

"Then there would be the hearing of my libel action against Albar and the
editors of the Utusan Melayu, who would be thoroughly cross-examined in court on
all the incendiary passages they published about me. That would mean a
devastating exposure of key Umno leaders' methods of incitement to racism and
bloody riots."

The letter added: "Ja'afar Albar's incendiary statements were printed in Utusan
Melayu. When Tun Razak told Dr Goh Keng Swee that he had complete control over
Utusan Melayu and Ja'afar Albar, we understood why the federal government did
not prosecute both of them for sedition, for inciting racial hatred."

SECTION: Home; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 595 words

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1998 The Straits Times Press Limited


                             654 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register(Springfield, IL)

                            August 29, 1996 Thursday

Race riot documentary impressive, challenging

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 828 words


Springfield's race riot of 1908 certainly is one of the most important, and

probably most infamous, events in the city's history.

But, in sharp contrast to many of Springfield's other historic elements,

the race riot's place in history never fully has been understood.

In part, that's because the generations immediately after the riot treated

it as an event to be forgotten, not chronicled.  Consequently, survivors,

participants and families of the victims of the riot, which actually

included two separate incidents of mob violence, took their stories to

their graves.

That, and the fact that precious little documentation of the riot itself

exists, made the making of the 30-minute documentary "Springfield Had No

Shame: The Springfield Race Riot of 1908" a daunting task.

Knowing those setbacks makes the documentary, which airs at 8 p.m. Sunday

on WSEC Channel 14/65, all the more impressive.

Produced by Dave Antoine and Kevin Norris of the University of Illinois at

Springfield television office, "Springfield Had No Shame" maintains a

reasoned tone and uses a sparse supply of historic visuals to create a

piece that not only outlines the events before, during and immediately

after the April 1908 riots, but also places the events within a social and

historic context.

The warm, authoritative voice of acclaimed actor and singer William

Warfield links the various elements of the film, whose main visual

components are photographs of the riot's aftermath, pictures of newspaper

accounts and interviews with several scholars on the riot's causes and

effects.

Considering that only about two dozen photographs of the riot's devastation

(40 homes and about 25 businesses destroyed) exist, the producers faced a

substantial challenge in keeping the show interesting visually and in

showing the damage of the riot.

They succeed by mixing the limited images, interspersing interview segments

and limiting the show to a compact, nicely paced 30 minutes.

With survivors of the event long deceased, "Springfield Had No Shame" dips

into the UIS oral history archives, and unearths interviews with witnesses

who recount the terror that reigned as a mob estimated at several thousand

went on a rampage that left two black men and five whites dead and the

reputation of Lincoln's hometown in tatters.

Perhaps the most enlightening aspect of the program is its setup of the

events that sparked the riots.  Long-simmering racial tension, stoked by

fear among whites that Southern blacks would take jobs from them, exploded

after a white woman made up a story of being raped by a black man.

Though many details of the mob's actions have been lost, the accounts of

its movement across town, ending with the lynching of William Donnegan at

the corner of Spring and Edwards streets, are chilling.  Likewise is the

picture that emerges of Springfield as a city under siege, with thousands

of National Guard troops occupying the streets and guarding blacks who had

been moved to shelters, churches and boxcars. ("I just prayed for an engine

to . . . to pull us away," says one survivor on an oral history tape.)

Despite a title that might indicate otherwise, "Springfield Had No Shame"

is not a guilt-purging document meant to further shame the city.  Rather,

it's a concise, insightful look at an event whose implications have been

felt ever since.

As Warfield states at the program's close, the purpose of re-examining the

race riot is not so much to figure out why it happened, but to ask

ourselves, "Can it happen again?"

Radio uproar

The dreaded "lack of chemistry" bug has claimed another victim in the

Springfield morning radio market.

Gail Hunter on Tuesday was relieved of her duties as morning news person on

WWTE-FM 93.9, where she had also served as a sidekick of the station's

morning host, Jim Shea.

Hunter, who is originally from Rockford, previously had worked as an

evening disc jockey at WNNS-FM 98.7, hosted an oldies request show on

WCVS-AM 1450 and acted as a fill-in for WQQL-FM 101. 9's Amie Meneghetti.

It was during her WQQL stint a year ago that she was hired by WDBR/WWTE to

do news, and she became Shea's partner when he arrived from Cleveland in

March.

Hunter was let go because the station heard little chemistry between her

and Shea, but she says the station's music-heavy format and Shea's role as

the show's headliner left her little room to contribute.

"I wasn't allowed to let my own personality come forth," Hunter says.  "I

was there to be a paid giggler." Hunter already is looking at other job

possibilities and hopes her next radio job will involve on-air and

management or programming duties.

Three weeks ago, former WYMG-FM 100.5 morning co-host Kelly Wilson was

removed from the air, and the station cited lack of chemistry between him

and co-host Liz Willis as the reason.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The State Journal-Register


                             655 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

Sangareddy riot was organized ' Only Muslims targeted

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, April 5 -- A delegation led by Prof. Kodandaram, Convener Telangana
Political Joint Action Committee visited the riot affected area of Sangareddy
town. The delegation included Prof. Rama Meekote. (Forum for better Hyderabad)
Mr. Nusrath Mohiuddin, Secretary INSAF committee Maulana Syed Tariq Quadri,
General Secretary Soofi Academy, Mr. Mujahid Hashmi, General Secretary, People's
Action Committee. Captain Panduranga Rao, Major Syed Ghouse Mohiuddin Quadri
(Help Hyderabad) Mr. Srinivas Goud (Telangana Gazetted Officers' Association)
Mr. C. Vithal (President, Telangana Gazetted Union) Mr. Sanaullah Khan
(Telangana Praja Front), Prof. K. Eshwar Reddy, Mr. D.P. Reddy, Mr. T. Ashok,
Mr. Beeraiah Yadav, Mr. Syed Sabir Ali, Mr. Mohammed Arif Ali (President U.M.F.)

The delegation inspected the damaged properties. While speaking to the victims,
they got the details of the losses and the reasons for the sudden outbreak of
the riot. It also assessed the hidden role of the local MLA.

The victims specifically told the delegation that this communal riot was an
organized one. Only the properties of the Muslims were targeted. The riot was so
sudden that the people could not adopt any protective measures. The miscreants
damaged shops with iron rods, sticks and petrol.

Police stopped the Muslim mob whereas the miscreants were given free hand. If
the police had reacted quickly, such a big loss of property wouldn't have
occurred.

Addressing the press conference Prof. Kodandaram told that if the police have
been alert this could have been averted. Even after informing about the riot,
police didn't come for help. They alleged that wherever congress assumes power,
communal riots take place.

Maulana Mujahid Hashmi and Major Syed Ghouse Mohiuddin Quadri told that riot
occurred due to inefficiency of police and at the instance of local MLA.
Municipality is removing the debris to prevent the revenue authorities to arrive
at the correct estimates of the losses. They said that all those culprits who
have destroyed the properties in the communal riot will reap the consequences
soon. They also condemned the arrests of innocent Muslim youths
indiscriminately.

People told the delegation that they and the victims and sufferers are being
arrested. They lost confidence in the Govt. machinery they urged to include
Muslim representatives also in the estimates committee. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             656 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

TEENAGERS TURN RIOTS INTO DRAMA

BYLINE: ByMarion McMullen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 356 words


THE riots that shocked the country have led Coventry teenagers to speak out
about violence on the streets.

They have taken over an empty warehouse at Far Gosford Street and are inviting
audiences to explore the reasons behind the mass riots that hit cities like
Birmingham, London, Wolverhampton and Manchester and destroyed shops and
businesses.

Juliet Hill, aged 15, said: "When the riots happened people started to blame
teenagers and we felt this was our chance to show we're not all bad and that
teenagers can be a positive force in our society."

Juliet and other city teenagers have been working with Coventry-based
performance company Highly Sprung on audio performance Under The Hood.

The piece is inspired by the recent riots and looting the cast have spent their
summer break working on the project.

So far 530 have been arrested in connection with the Birmingham riots.

Alistair Whelan, aged 13, said: "We wanted to look at both sides of the argument
and investigate the reasons behind the riots."

The free audio tour opened yesterday at Unit 4 Fargo Village at Gosford
Industrial Estate and continues today with performances at 5pm, 6pm and 7pm.

Audience are taken on a 20 mnute journey through the riots and the events and
people that surrounded them. Annie Kruntcheva, aged 15, said: "We're performing
in an old warehouse and this has really challenged us. I think because of the
space we have created a really rich and strong performance with some original
ideas, like the audience all have to wear headphones and follow the performance
around the space."

Under The Hood is part of the group's Silver Arts Award summer project.

The Coventry cast also includes 15-year-olds Sonali Gupta, Sian Fedeski, Katie
Staunton and Will Mann.

Mark Worth, of Highly Sprung, said: "All the young people involved are members
of the Highly Sprung weekly workshops for children and young people and they
have given up three weeks of their summer to take part in the project."

Juliet said: "We decided that we wanted to look at a modern and relevant topic
that is affecting us as young people." To book for a performance email
underthehood2011@yahoo.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIOTOUS PERFORMANCE: Young people are putting on a performance called
Under the Hood inspired by the recent riots

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             657 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Nanaimo Daily News (British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

First charges laid after riot; Two men, one from Burnaby another from Calgary,
accused in stabbing incident

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 311  words


As Vancouver police revealed details Monday of the first charges following last
week's Stanley Cup riot, the B.C. government laid out how an independent review
of the riot could help prevent a repeat of the violent rampage in future.

The review will look at how police dealt with the alcohol-fuelled crowds June 15
and whether the lessons of the 1994 Stanley Cup riot were adequately heeded.

"Everyone wants to understand how this riot happened, ask the tough questions
about it and move forward because we want to keep having these big gatherings
downtown," said Mayor Gregor Robertson.

Criminal charges have now been laid or recommended against six people, with
others expected to follow, Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu said Monday.

Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing during the riot after the
Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final. Burnaby resident Edgar
Ricardo Garcia, 20, is charged with aggravated assault after two men were
stabbed that night. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle Evans, 27, has been charged
with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public peace in the same incident.

Charges have also been recommended against another six people, ranging from
mischief and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the
suspects have criminal histories.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young
Delta man accused of vandalizing a green pickup truck, a 19-year-old who is
accused of stealing a Coach purse from the Bay and 17-year-old Nathan Kotylak,
accused of lighting a police car on fire.

About 12 suspects have turned themselves in so far in part because of the
widespread circulation of riot images and because of collective post-riot guilt.

Chu urged others to follow suit. "If you come in voluntarily you

can do so discreetly and at a time that is convenient for you," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Postmedia News; While it didn't take long for  police to disperse
rioters, the first charges in the incident were  laid on Tuesday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Nanaimo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             658 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Cong responsible for 1984, 1989 riots; BJP for 2002: Nitish

BYLINE: Santosh Singh

LENGTH: 255  words

DATELINE: Patna


Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar Tuesday attacked the Congress and said it was
responsible for the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, and the 1989 Bhagalpur riots
in Bihar, just as BJP was responsible for the 2002 Gujarat riots.



Nitish, who has been enjoying a bonhomie with the Congress since the JD(U) split
from the NDA, attacked the Congress amidst reports of RJD and LJP striking an
alliance with the party in Bihar.

Reacting to Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi's TV interview in which he
spoke about the anti-Sikh riots and the Gujarat riots, Nitish said: "Just as BJP
has been responsible for 2002 Gujarat riots, Congress is responsible for 1984
riots. Congress is equally responsible for 1989 Bhagalpur riots".

Speaking on the RJD alliance, he said, "RJD and Congress share the same
political temperament and their alliance does not come as a surprise. But Rahul
Gandhi talking of tearing up and throwing ordinance (which was later withdrawn)
in his fight against graft looks all hollow now."

Centre invites Nitish for AMU function

PATNA: Under attack from the Bihar government for not informing it about AMU
branch foundation-laying ceremony on January 30, Union HRD Minister M M Pallam
Raju Tuesday extended invitation to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to atttend
the function.

The Union HRD Minister's faxed letter did not mention Bihar Education Minister P
K Shahi's correspondence with Raju. CM House sources said the Centre's
invitation arrived late and the CM had not yet taken a final call attending the
function. ENS

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             659 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

Not enough police at riot, mayor says;
Robertson says police chief has now revealed how many officers were on duty;
cites alcohol as key factor in disturbance

BYLINE: IAN BAILEY

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RAMPAGE / STAFFING NUMBERS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 775 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Vancouver's mayor now says the police were understaffed in dealing with the
Stanley Cup riots last month and that the chief of the Vancouver Police
Department agrees.

Gregor Robertson made the point Monday in a statement to The Globe and Mail.

Until Monday, the mayor had not been critical of police staffing in the
aftermath of the riot.

"The Chief and I have had a number of discussions about the riot, and with the
internal and external reviews under way, information from different agencies is
being shared so that no stone is left unturned," Mr. Robertson said in the
statement, responding to a series of Globe and Mail questions.

"I believe the VPD had a well-resourced plan but in hindsight, both the chief
and I agree that more officers were needed, given the number of people who
joined the riot."

Mr. Robertson went on to say that he hoped the continuing independent review
into the riots will be "very helpful" in analyzing what happened and providing
lessons for future events.

That review is being handled by John Furlong, the former VANOC co-chair, and
Doug Keefe, a former Nova Scotia deputy attorney-general.

They are working toward an Aug. 31 deadline.

The mayor said alcohol played a "key role" in the riot and he expected the
review will also consider that issue.

"The VPD and Transit police found a lot of people, especially young people, were
coming downtown on transit already intoxicated.

"On top of that, bars and restaurants were serving people throughout the day."

Mr. Robertson's comments came as he told CKNW Radio on Monday that the police
response wasn't quick enough, and also said he finally knows how many officers
the Vancouver Police Department deployed to deal with the worst riot in the city
since the Stanley Cup riot of 1994.

Mr. Robertson told CKNW that Police Chief Jim Chu has now provided the staffing
information, but that the figure won't be released unless the authors of the
independent review decide to do so.

Overall, Mr. Robertson praised the police.

"I think they did a really good job of ensuring that public safety was
paramount, and they deserve accolades," he said.

"In hindsight, now everyone seems a lot more clear that there were people who
came down, maybe they weren't going to start a riot, but they were going to get
involved." Mr. Robertson told radio host Bill Good.

"That kind of immediate response in the hours before [the riot] I don't think
was as quick as it should have been, to ramp up and assume it could get worse."

The riot, which caused millions of dollars in damage to stores and businesses in
downtown Vancouver, occurred June 15 after the Vancouver Canucks were defeated
in Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final. A crowd estimated at about 150,000 was in
the city core that night.

Mr. Robertson has previously said the chief had refused to provide the
information despite the mayor's request for the figures.

The mayor had said the lack of disclosure was consistent with the division of
responsibilities between politicians and police, and that he had full confidence
in the chief's planning for a possible riot.

Asked about the point last month, the mayor told The Globe and Mail Chief Chu
told him numbers could not be provided for "operational reasons."

It remains unclear why Chief Chu decided to provide the deployment numbers to
the mayor after all.

Mr. Robertson said the chief assured him the number of officers on the ground
was comparable to what there was on the streets for the gold-medal hockey game
at the 2010 Winter Olympics - a point the mayor repeated in Monday's statement.

Constable Lindsey Houghton, speaking for the Vancouver Police Department, said
in an e-mailed statement that the force would not comment on the mayor's remarks
while the independent review is ongoing.

Mr. Keefe has described the issue around the number of police officers as a
"small ball" matter, but said it may, in fact, be released in the report.

"If telling the story of the deployment requires the number to be put out there,
I suppose we will do that," he told reporters several weeks ago.

He said the number of officers is meaningless without the "whole context" of
events around the riot, which saw about a hundred arrests amid looting, assaults
and window-smashing in downtown Vancouver.

Suzanne Anton, a councillor from the opposition NPA party who is also the
party's candidate for mayor, said Mr. Robertson needs to take more
responsibility for what happened.

"The mayor still has never said, 'The buck stops here.' He has failed to take
full accountability," she said.

"He has demonstrated further how little a handle he had on what was going on."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             660 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           September 6, 1996, Friday

Local unionists 'linked' to riots

BYLINE: By Chief Political Writer DAVID PENBERTHY inCanberra

LENGTH: 429 words


Federal police have identified several South Australian unionists as

allegedly central to the Parliament House riots 21/2 weeks ago.

A taskforce has been scouring video footage of the August 19 riot

and the August 20 Aboriginal riot and is poised to swoop on an

unknown number of local unionists.

Hundreds of South Australians went to Canberra to join the

ACTU-sponsored August 19 protest, which deteriorated into the most

violent attack ever on an Australian Parliament.

Police believe a hard core of unionists most from SA, Victoria and

Queensland incited the violence.

Many distributed cans of beer before the riots which featured a

picture of the Prime Minister, Mr Howard, with an axe sticking out of

his head.

The cans were covered with stickers saying "after consumption this

can should be crushed and thrown at anyone who represents the

system".

One of the SA unionists who was involved in the riots has refused to

stand aside from his union. This is despite the decision of one of his

interstate colleagues who also took part in the riots to resign so

as to not embarrass his union.

Mr Davie Thomason, a SA organiser with the building division of the

Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union, had his head smashed

against Parliament's marble floors. Most newspapers including The

Advertiser ran front-page photographs of the bloodied unionist.

He also was photographed making an impromptu speech at the rally,

waving a police riot shield and saying "Look what we got from the

coppers".

One of his CFMEU colleagues from NSW, Mr Viduar Vega, also was

involved in the riots and resigned from the union yesterday. But Mr

Thomason said yesterday he had "no intention of resigning."

He said he had been placed under no pressure by his local branch to

resign and suggested there was a media conspiracy to force his

resignation.

Mr Thomason previously has defended his involvement in the riot. On

the day after it occurred, he told The Advertiser he was a victim of

police brutality.

Police yesterday arrested a second man over the August 20 protest. A

spokesman said the 59-year-old man was arrested at Nowra, south of

Sydney, and charged with two counts of assaulting police.

On Tuesday, police arrested a 26-year-old man at Yass, NSW, in

relation to the August 19 riot and charged him with four counts of

assaulting police and four of assault while participating in a public

assembly.

Both men were identified from video footage.

More than 100 police and dozens of protesters were injured in the two

riots.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             661 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              June 8, 2009 Monday

'84 riot victims pledge support to SAD-BJP

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 299  words

DATELINE: Ludhiana


Lashing out at the Congress for neglecting the families affected by the 1984
anti-Sikh riots, the Danga Peerit Welfare Society on Friday said it would
support the SAD-BJP alliance in the state.

President of the Danga Peerit Welfare Society Surjit accused the Congress of
shielding those guilty in the riots.

"Having given tickets to Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar, the Congress withdrew
their candidatures later realising that it would invite defeat in the
forthcoming elections."

Accusing Congress candidate Manish Tewari of being "anti-Sikh", Surjit Singh
said he (Tewari) never condemned the riots during his campaign.

"It's a clear indication that the party did not want to administer justice. Even
after 25 years, nobody has been punished," he said.

Asked to comment on the riot-hit families who have reportedly sided with the
Congress, Surjit Singh said, "They are not riot victims or part of the society."

Society members who were victims of the 1984 riots also expressed anguish for
the Congress. Having lost her husband, son and son-in-law to the riots, Harbans
Kaur said: "The Congress never came to us. How can anybody from the party expect
votes from us?"

Another victim, 75-year-old Veera said the families were unhappy with the
treatment meted out to them by the Congress.

Asked if the society had any soft corner for Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh,
another riot victim Jeevan Kaur said, "Dr Manmohan Singh is only a stamp in the
hands of the Congress."

Also present in the press conference were chairman of the society Gurdev Singh,
Chairperson of the Ladies wing Gurmeet Kaur, Manmohan Singh Haibowal, Amarjit
Singh Dhawan, Satbirpal Singh Sonu, Inderpal Singh Vicky, Balbir Kaur,
Lakhwinder Singh Lakha, Amarjit Singh Babbal, Satnam Singh Satta and Parminder
Singh among other leaders.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             662 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           November 4, 2006 Saturday
                          City Edition 11:30pm Edition

Riot squad to get Cronulla beef-up

BYLINE: KARA LAWRENCE, JOE HILDEBRAND

SECTION: LOCAL TABLE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 485  words


THE state's riot squad will be boosted significantly following the fallout from
the Cronulla riots.

The Saturday Daily Telegraph also understands riot squad commander Chief
Superintendent Steve Cullen is expected to be promoted to a newly created
position as assistant commissioner in charge of public order management.

Supt Cullen, who has recently taken a course in advanced public order command,
was a tactical adviser for the Cronulla riots. He was not criticised in the
recent report into the riots by former Assistant Commissioner Norm Hazzard.

The Government is understood to be planning a major announcement about the riot
squad this weekend.

The squad currently has 50 officers but the Government is expected to double it
to 100 officers, with the potential to increase it to 200 next year.

Yesterday the Government vowed to implement all 33 recommendations of the
controversial report into the riots.

However Police Minister John Watkins added an important condition: the more
expensive measures would not go ahead unless a business plan was approved.

The Government will also establish a response review team to quickly assess
police reaction to future riots or public disturbances.

Mr Watkins and Commissioner Ken Moroney released the Government's
much-anticipated response to the report, as Mr Moroney revealed the drama
surrounding its release had taken its toll on him.

An internal police dispute over whether the report was completed or not, led to
the explosive sacking of former police minister Carl Scully after he twice
misled parliament.

Mr Scully had also criticised Mr Hazzard, before retracting the comments.

Following Mr Scully's departure Assistant Commissioner Mark Goodwin, who was
criticised in the report, went on stress leave and it remains unclear whether he
will return.

Asked if the issue had taken its toll, Mr Moroney said: ''Yes. I can't be
anything but frank.

''I think a number of things have been said that in hindsight it would have been
better had they not been said.''

In an effort to avoid a repeat of the protracted and messy Cronulla report, the
response review team will issue a preliminary report on police response within
one month of the incident, with a final report within three months.

Mr Watkins said 19 of the Hazzard recommendations had been fully or partially
implemented and the remainder would be adopted, including the mobile police
command centre.


Experienced officer promoted

* STEVE Cullen (pictured) has served much of his career at stations in Sydney's
north including North Sydney and Manly

* In 2002/03 as local area commander, brought in a 2am lock-out in pubs in Manly
to curb anti-social behaviour, a policy he replicated in Kings Cross in 2004

* In 2005 was promoted to chief superintendent and in charge of a new riot squad
following the Redfern and then Macquarie Fields incidents

* Strategic adviser and in charge of the Operational Support at Cronulla riots

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             663 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      August 26, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

A year on, tension grips Muzaffarnagar again as riots accused Sangeet Som is
granted Z-plus security

LENGTH: 670  words


Muzzafarnagar: It has been one year since the Muzzafarnagar riots in which
nearly 61 people were killed and 50000 others were made homeless but thousands
of victims of these riots are still trying to recover from it.

(AFPImage: The view of a street in Muzzafarnagar just after the riots as police
inspects the area; riot accused BJP MP Sangeet Som.)

However, on the occasion of one year death anniversary of Gaurav and Sachin, the
situation is tense in neighbouring villages. The riots had erupted in the
district after the death of these two boys. Nearly 567 FIRs have been lodged in
connection to the riots but no one was proved to be guilty.

In the meanwhile, riot accused BJP MP Sangeet Som wil be provided with Z+
security, as decided by the Home Ministry. Last year on August 28, residents of
Malikapur village Sachin and Gaurav were killed in a neighbouring village
Kawaal. The family members of both youth are preparing to pay tribute to them on
their one year death anniversary.

Mainly minorities live in Kawaal village. Some people of the villages have said
that people from jaat community must not pass by their village to Kawaal village
for death anniversary of deceased. However, the head of the village have stated
that those travelling by car or two-wheeler can pass by the village. Even after
this statement, the administration is on alert.

Z+ security for riot accused BJP MP Sangeet Som

The Union Home Ministry have decided to provide Z+ security to BJP MP Sangeet
Som who is accused of spurring the riots in the district. The decision was taken
in a meeting headed by Rajnath Singh.

Just one gunman was deployed for the security of Som till date. BJP was
demanding Uttar Pradesh government to increase his security. When the UP police
did not act upon it, they approached the IF of Lucknow and have now decided for
the Z+ security for its party leader from Sardhana. In the report filed by IG,
it is stated that Sangeet Som's life is in danger.

What led to riots in Muzzaffarnagar?

On August 28, 2013, after the death of three youth namely Shahnawaz, Gaurav
Kumar and Sachin Taliyan, riots erupted in the district. The Special
Investigating Cell, in its investigation said that Shahnawaz was killed by
Sachin and Gaurav. Shahnawaz was alleged of teasing Gaurav's cousin sister.

The FIR registered in the matter also includes names of three more people who
were present on the spot when the incident happened. One of them was killed in a
train accident while police could not collect any evidence against the rest of
two. SIT never registered a charge-sheet in this case.

After the death of Sachin and Gaurav, a charge-sheet was filed by the police and
5 people were taken into custody. The death of three youth led to riots in
Muzzafarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh. The charge-sheet was file in November
2013 while charges were decided in April 2014. The father of Gaurav, Ravinder
Singh gave his statement last week while the statement of 35 other witnesses is
yet to be recorded in the case.

Tension gripped villages in Muzzaffarnagar district

After the deaths in the village, mahapanchayats were held in the nearby
villages. The communal tension was on its peak in the region. A group of Jaat
community people was attacked on the evening of September 7. After the violence,
police recovered 6 dead bodies from the village canal. FIRs in the name of 60
people were registered. The charges in this case are not yet finalised.

After this incident, rumours were spread that several people were killed in the
attack and bodies of many are still missing. This led to violence in Kutba
village as well. After this riot, Army was deployed in the region. Army saved
the life of 26 people but 8 others were still killed. After Kutba violence,
minorities group started eloping from the villages.

FIR against 100 people was filed in the Kutba violence incident. However,
evidences against 4 people were found in the case and they were arrested by the
police. Nearly 62 people still have to give their statement in the case.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             664 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                    September 18, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Not involved in Muzaffarnagar riots: Azam

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 332  words


Lucknow, Sept 18 (IBNS) Senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan on
Wednesday said he hs nothing to with  Muzaffarnagar riots that claimed at least
48 lives recently.

"I have nothing to do with Muzaffarnagar riots. I am not involved," said Khan.

Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh Police on Wednesday cordoned off the state assembly
and reports said they may arest accused MLAs.

Khan on Monday slammed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and top brass of Congress
party for touring riot-hit Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh.

"Manmohan Singh has gone to Muzaffarnagar... it is good... elections are near so
he should do this," Khan told reporters here.

He said if the PM is so concerned about communal riots, then he should have also
visited other areas like Faizabad, Mathura and Bareilly, where riots have taken
place in the past.

He also defended the state government over the handling of the situation and
said it has followed law so far, which helped in stopping the riots.

"We have followed the law so far and will continue doing so. It is the law that
has stopped the violence in Muzaffarnagar."

Khan alleged that the riots in Muzaffarnagar were triggered by fascist forces
which operate under the cover of secularism.

"Fascists in the country were bothered by the fact that the Samajwadi Party is
peacefully in power in UP," Khan told reporters.

"Whatever happened there was bad and we condemn it. WE will take strict action
against the perpetrators," he said.

Khan reportedly skipped a crucial national executive party meeting in Agra last
week and his absence was speculated as a registration of protest over the
Muzaffarnagar riots that have killed at least 44 people.

NDTV citing sources even reported that Khan had told supporters that he blames
the state government for failing to prevent the riots despite myriad warning
signs.

However, SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav had denied all reports of rifts within
the party and said Khan could never be upset with him.

Image courtesy: Wikipedia/Creative Commons

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2013 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             665 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 26, 2013 Friday

Riot victim debt waiver only for those who took loans as such: Punjab and
Haryana high court

BYLINE: Ajay Sura

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 407 words


CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that the victims of 1984
anti-Sikh riots are not entitled to claim the scheme of loan waiver, if they had
not sought loan by presenting themselves as riot victims. The case pertained to
a group of petitioners, who had taken loan from banking institutions and later
sought waiver on the grounds of being riot victims. However, at the time of
taking the loan, they had not presented themselves as riot victims.

The high court, however, asked the banks "to deal with the petitioners,
especially for non-commercial loans, in sympathetic manner as possible, keeping
in view that the petitioners are riot victims". It also clarified that loan
taken from "non-banking financial companies and private banks are not covered
under the scheme". It was also cleared by the court that loans in such cases,
applied after June 30, 1996, would not be entitled for the waiver scheme.

Justice Rajiv Narain Raina of the Punjab and Haryana high court passed the
orders while dismissing petitions by riot victims.

To rehabilitate Sikh migrants, who became victims of 1984 riots, the government
had formulated schemes to ameliorate their lot, by providing for easier terms to
raise loans from banking institutions. Under the scheme, only loans taken prior
to June 30, 1996, till the date of actual liquidation of the account, were to be
written off by the lending banks/financial institutions.

The petitioners were engaged in business and work through establishments run in
separate industrial plots in Industrial Focal Point, Mohali. They claimed that
they were victims of the 1984 riots, were re-settled in Punjab and have been
issued Red cards by the district administration in proof of being riot victims.

The petitioners had taken loans from nationalized banks, private banks,
cooperative banks and from non-banking financial institutions for different
purposes on different dates after June 30, 1996.

In their petition, they pleaded that the scheme of loan waiver should be
implemented in their favour. Citing section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949, they contended that the Reserve Bank of India has the powers to give
directions, in public interest and in the interest of banking policy, to
banks/financial institutions to either write off loans or to come to the aid of
petitioners to save them from the quicksand of debt. The HC, however, turned
down their pleas.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             666 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            April 13, 2013 Saturday

Anti-Sikh riots were sponsored by Cong, BJP says

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 444 words


NEW DELHI: Opposition BJP on Thursday attacked Congress and alleged that the
1984 anti-Sikh riots in which Jagdish Tytler is facing charges were "sponsored"
by the ruling party at the behest of the Gandhi family and sought to know why
the party was silent on the issue for the last 28 years.

The main opposition also said there were no similarities between the 1984
"massacre" and the 2002 post-Godhra riots and claimed that prompt action was
taken by the Gujarat government in the latter case.

"We welcome the court decision to reopen the case against Congress leader
Jagdish Tytler in the 1984 anti-Sikh massacre. He is a permanent invitee to the
Congress Working Committee and even contested the 2004 elections. The riots were
actually a Congress-sponsored massacre of Sikhs," BJP spokesperson Nirmala
Sitharaman told reporters. She claimed that the riots, allegedly involving some
Congress leaders including Tytler, had the support of then PM Rajiv Gandhi and
his family.

"Rajiv Gandhi had said (after Indira Gandhi's assassination) that when a big
tree falls the earth shakes. No statement has come from the family even after 28
years. Why are they silent? If there had been any sensitivity in the family,
they would have apologized," she said.

Other than Tytler, Congress leaders H K L Bhagat, Dharam Das Shastri, Sajjan
Kumar and Kamal Nath have been named by various committees which have probed the
1984 riots, the BJP claimed.

The party insisted that the anti-Sikh riots could not be compared to the 2002
Gujarat riots. "In 2002, it was a riot. I would not justify it for even a
minute. But the administration responded by calling in the Army. In 1984, it was
a one-sided massacre. People were not allowed to lodge an FIR. Army was deployed
in Delhi only on the third day and in other places only on the fourth day,"
Sitharaman said.

Sitharaman quoted from various commissions and committees which had probed the
1984 riots and claimed that Congress leaders and workers had incited or helped
mobs in attacking Sikhs.

"Even as the news of the unfortunate death of the prime minister (Indira Gandhi)
spread, Congress leaders were distributing voters' list and ration cards among
themselves to single out Sikhs," she said, adding that houses were branded as
was done by Nazi forces against Jews during the World War.

She said the government of the day was so "insensitive" that small businessmen
whose property was damaged in the riots were not given insurance cover.
"Nanavati Commission has observed that despite the curfew, mobs indulging in
violence were moving freely and committing acts of looting and killing,"
Sitharaman said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             667 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Gujarat govt responsible for 2002 riots; I am not scared of Modi: Rahul

LENGTH: 723 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Jan. 29 -- Taking on Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) prime ministerial
candidate Narendra Modi, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi said Gujarat
government was involved in 2002 riots.

Speaking to an English news channel on Monday, Rahul defended the Congress
government for 1984 riots and said, "Gujarat government was involved in 2002
riots while Congress government tried to stop 1984 riots."

At the same time, he said that, "Some Congress men were probably involved in
1984 riots, legal process is on."

To questions whether he would apologise for the 1984 riots and whether he felt
that there was no need for it, Gandhi said, "First of all, I wasn't involved in
the riots at all. It wasn't that I was a part of it."

While on the topic of taking reins of the Congress party in the upcoming General
Elections, Rahul said, "I am the vice president of the party and will take full
responsibility if we (Congress) lose the elections."

When asked about the criticism heaped on him by BJP leader Subramanian Swamy,
Rahul said, "He (Swamy) has been attacking my family for 40 years. Let him take
the legal process and solve it."

While on personal criticism the Congress leader said, " I respond by
understanding why I am being attacked. Beat me to death, but I will keep asking
questions that are relevant to the system."

"It does not matter. Keep throwing stones at us. I am being attacked because I
am doing things dangerous to the system," he added.

Further while answering to a question that if not 'Gandhi' had he joined
politics, Rahul said, "Unfairness makes my blood boil. That's at the heart of my
politics."

To questions about dynasty politics, Gandhi said that he is "absolutely against
the concept of dynasty. But it happens in BJP, SP, DMK and Congress everywhere."

"I am absolutely against the concept of dynasty. Anybody who knows me knows that
and understands that. But you are not going to wish away dynasty in a closed
system. You have to open the system," Rahul added.

When asked if he agreed with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's view that Modi
presided over the "mass massacre" of innocents on the streets of Ahmedabad,
Gandhi said, "what the Prime Minister is saying is the fact. Gujarat happened
and people died."

Asked if he was avoiding a direct face-off with Modi by not becoming the Prime
Ministerial candidate of the Congress, the Congress Vice President said, "to
understand that question, you have to understand a little bit, who Rahul Gandhi
is and you get an answer to the question to what Rahul Gandhi is scared of and
not scared of."

To a question as to what was his view of BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate, he
said, "I think, we will defeat the BJP in the next elections....I will win the
election. I am reasonably confident."

He added that Congress was "battle ready" and "going to win". Asked if he would
take responsibility if Congress doesn't win the election, he said, "if we don't
win, I am the Vice President of the party. I will take responsibility."

On naming Modi as PM candidate, he said, "BJP believes in concentration of power
in one person. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe in democracy. I
believe in opening of the system.... We have fundamentally different
philosophies."

The questioner said Rahul Gandhi has avoided the whole question about whether he
was open to PM's post and avoiding a difficult contest.

In reply, Gandhi referred to his speech at the AICC meet here and said
announcing a PM candidate before an election is "announcing your PM without
asking your MPs. It is not actually written in the Constitution."

He avoided direct reply to questions on whether political parties should be
brought under the purview of RTI, saying Parliament should decide on it if
political parties are unanimous on this. "My position is that the more openness,
the better."

Asked why Congress protected former Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan
despite a judicial commission's indictment, Gandhi said the party had taken
action wherever corruption was involved.

He said he made his position clear on Chavan after the Maharashtra Cabinet had
rejected the judicial commission's findings.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             668 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Were the Tottenham riots sparked by the beating of a 16-year-old girl?

BYLINE: Symeon Brownguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 984 words

ABSTRACT

Symeon Brown: Whether the rumour of a police beating is true or not, the
community's readiness to believe it reveals a pervasive distrust

FULL TEXT

Resting against the restored red brick of Tottenham's Edwardian town hall in
north London is the marble memorial dedicated to one of Tottenham's late
matriarchs, Cynthia Jarrett. The flowers that accompany the memorial may have
browned with age but the memory of Jarrett's death is regularly revisited.

Since August comparisons have been frequently drawn between the deaths of
Jarrett and Mark Duggan as preludes to Tottenham's respective riots.

However, although Duggan's death brought many outside Tottenham police station,
the earliest reports on 6 August told that the trigger of the violence was not
his death, but the beating of a 16-year-old girl of African descent by police
during the peaceful stage of the demonstration.

Over three months have passed and the 16-year-old is yet to come forward,
raising the questions, who is she, where is she - and does she exist?

Of the number who recounted the Tottenham riots from first memory, none could
identify her, and despite their conviction that the story was true, only one
said they saw it directly - a grandmother, who was also present during the
Broadwater Farm riots.

The grandmother said: "I was angry and I was cursing, I remember the young girl
was standing by the policeman's line. Where I was facing, I saw the back of her,
so I saw the policeman lift his fist and punch her right in her mouth, as he did
that I ran over to her and her mouth was bleeding, and from when that fist hit
the girl, the riots started. That's how the riots started, when the police
officer punched the 16-year-old girl in the face."

The Tottenham grandmother also confirmed herself as the voice heard on the
unclear YouTube video that alleged to have captured the attack, and which has
been broadcast all over the world and to many confirmed the rumour.

However, both the YouTube video and the grandmother's account conflict with
other known facts - for example, the fact that the first police car was set on
fire at 8.30pm, summertime, and therefore in daylight. This moment is said to
have marked the start of the clashes. The YouTube video of the alleged attack
was clearly taken during nightfall after the clashes would have begun. The
testimony of the grandmother was also undermined by those who said they were
with her that night.

Further doubts about the event were confirmed by Enid Ledgister, of the Haringey
Community and Police Consultative Group, which monitors community and police
relations in the area. Ledgister said: "We [HCPCG] have no knowledge of such an
incident taking place."

Despite the absence of empirical evidence, the conviction among those who took
part in the riots remains relevant.

That night, the story of the unidentified black teenager spread along Tottenham
High Road faster than the fires. The video that seemed to confirm the rumour
went viral a day later.

One Tottenham participant shared how the unconfirmed rumour spread on the day.
"I was speaking to a random woman. I didn't know her at the time however we
started a conversation and she went on to tell me that the police attacked a
young girl. Now at the time I was not sure. I was completely unaware of all of
this, however the following day I received an email link with footage of this
young black girl being attacked by the police."

Even if the story is a fallacy its potential to be true in the aftermath of
student protests and the case ofJody McIntyre, and the death of Mark Duggan,
reflects how the expectation held by many of the police as an abuser rather than
a servant of the public can be devastating.

The IPCC has investigated 460 deaths following police contact; these
investigations have led - astonishingly - to zero convictions of officers. This
has created a crisis in trust among sections of communities where a collective
memory of police brutality against black men is remembered.

A 25-year-old local activist known as Kwabena Smiles told Reading the Riots
researchers that, "echoes of the Cliff McDaniel attack, and deaths of Colin
Roach, Cynthia Jarrett, is, for many locals, why there is such a deep distrust
of the police. Thus why would this young lady come forward in hope of justice?
Would you come forward if you were raised in an environment where many
grandparents, parents and young people believe the police can get away with
murder?"

The rumour also began to mutate with some hearing that she was a pregnant woman
and others that the girl was 10 years old. One participant remembers his anger
on hearing it respectively: "There's a video on YouTube where they're beating up
this little 10-year-old girl ... They was beating the little 10-year-old girl
up. What did she do? What are they getting outta that? See. Things like that
gets me more mad so I feel, yeah, there should be a fucking riot."

The changes to the story are similar to that in south London's Brixton riots of
1981 and the 2005 Lozells riots in Birmingham. During the first Brixton riots a
young black man with a stab wound was held by the police before being released
in an ambulance. Many involved heard the police were preventing an ambulance
from being called, and some that it was the police that had stabbed him.

In Birmingham's race riots the parallels were even closer. Black youths took to
the streets after it was broadcast that a black teenage girl had been raped by
south Asian men. No evidence was ever found to confirm the rumour.

The prevalence of riot rumours that live past the disturbance shows how easily
fiction can be considered fact in the presence of communal consent. Unless a
girl comes forward or the 16-year-old is identified the attack will retain the
status of myth, but as long as there is an expectation of police violence among
sections of society, she will also continue to be remembered as a martyr.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             669 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'New religion' of greed blamed for rioting

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 672 words


A CULTURE of greed exacerbated by police inaction was to blame for the summer's
riots, an official report has found.

A desire to "have what we want when we want" drove the looters on to the streets
in August, an independent body set up by the Government found.

The Riots Communities and Victims Panel said that earning status with one's
peers through owning top brands had become a "new religion".

Looters raided thousands of shops and businesses after police failed to tackle
the first disturbances, encouraging others to go on the rampage.

The public felt "abandoned". The apparent inability to contain the disturbances
in London meant police in other cities were tested, the panel found.

The report also concluded that:

As many as 15,000 people were involved in the riots.

The final bill for the disturbances will be more than £500million.

Another half a billion pounds will be lost because of a fall in tourism.

Nine out of 10 rioters had previously been arrested, cautioned or convicted.
Many victims face long delays in compensation payouts.

Police and authorities in London need to be better prepared in case the riots
are repeated during the Olympics next year.

The panel said there was no single motivating factor for the summer riots.

However, stealing luxury items became the "rioters' main objective".

"Increasingly we live in a society where conspicuous consumption and self worth
have become intrinsically interlinked," the report says. "Some would argue
consumerism is the 'new religion'.

"In the panel's conversations with communities and young people, the desire to
own goods that give the owner high status (such as branded trainers and digital
gadgets) was seen as an important factor behind the riots.

"In addition, the idea of 'saving up' for something has been replaced by the
idea that we should have what we want when we want." Stores such as Footlocker
and JD Sports as well as shops with mobile phones and electrical goods were
targeted, it said.

In one store, rioters were "queueing" to get their chosen items.

Profiles of the rioters, drawn up by the panel, ranged from organised criminals
to "late night shoppers".

Heather Rabbatts, a panel member, said: "These were not riots that were
political, these were particularly characterised by opportunistic looting and
targeted at brands."

The early response by the police to the first riots in Tottenham, north London,
was blamed for the riots spreading.

Most people interviewed believed the "sole trigger" for disturbances in their
areas was the perception that the police "could not contain" the scale of
rioting.

"Lack of confidence in the police response to the initial riots encouraged
people to test reactions in other areas," the panel's interim report said.
"Rioters believed they would be able to loot without being challenged. In the
hardest-hit areas, they were correct."

The report also criticised the compensation system for those affected and called
for an overhaul of the law.

It said half of the small claims and nine in 10 large claims were likely still
to be outstanding by next March.

Some insurance companies were criticised for paying out only in certain, limited
circumstances. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) said its members
"pulled out all the stops" to help policy holders.

Eric Pickles, the Communities Secretary, said: "The riots were shocking acts of
criminality. Our response has been and continues to be wide-ranging."

Thugs who rampaged through Milton Keynes last August in scenes reminiscent of
the London riots have been sentenced to a total of 18 years behind bars. The
rioters were dealt with at Aylesbury Crown Court. Those sentenced to a young
offenders' institute were Aaron Cunningham, 19, Charlie Fisher, 18, Nicolas
Balibuno, 18, Tafadzwa Sibanda, 20, Jack Mossman, 18, Resal Bray, 18, and Pius
Ofori, 18. The three rioters jailed were Spencer Layne, 23, Mahad Abdi, 22, and
Nigel Baiden, 18. Two men accused of violent disorder deny the charge and face a
trial in January. Lewis Nicholls, 15, was freed with a rehabilitation order.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Four of the troublemakers in Milton Keynes: pictured from the left,
Lewis Nicholls, 15, Jack Mossman, 18, Tafadzwa Sibanda, 20, and Nicolas
Balibuno, 18
BRADLEY-FIRTH JETHRO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             670 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Times (Islamabad)

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday

The underlying cause

LENGTH: 974  words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, Oct. 09 -- THE recent riots in London that subsequently spread to
other British cities were triggered by the fatal shooting of Mark Duggan, who
hailed from London's black community, by the Met police's Trident unit on Aug
4.As in the past, suspicions arose over the police account of the shooting
which, the force maintained, was resorted to when it was fired upon. With family
mistrust of the police account deepening, tensions escalated into an explosive
confrontation when the Tottenham police station reportedly failed to give
plausible answers to Duggan's grieving family and its supporters.Violence
erupted into a seemingly unending round of riots.By Aug 8, riots were being
reported from Hackney, Walthamstow, Ealing, Woodgreen, Peckham and Croydon.
Skirmishes between police and youth were soon reported from Birmingham and
Liverpool which degenerated into a familiar looting spree, with police
reportedly standing by.

The extent and scale of the riots forced Prime Minister David Cameron to cut
short his vacation and announce a slew of measures to control the rioting in an
emergency session of parliament.In fact, these riots have not erupted out of
nowhere. They are only the latest in a series that dates to 1981 when the first
serious and sustained race riots occurred in Liverpool and Brixton in London
(the Notting Hill race riots in 1958 were on a smaller scale). In these riots,
and other sporadic ones, high-handed policing of local communities was perceived
as the spark.The 1981 Brixton riots resulted in a major inquiry led by Lord
Scarman which found that anger against the harsh policing methods of ethnic
minority communities was a major trigger.The Scarman report, a landmark in
British race relations, also indicated urban deprivation, unemployment and
widespread discrimination as the underlying triggers. Although it stopped short
of recommending positive action, the report proposed better ethnic policing
practices in addition to urban regeneration and employment-enhancing schemes.
Yet theserecommendations failed to make any positive impact on police-ethnic
community relations. As a result, mistrust between the police and local
communities continued to grow.In 1997, the Macpherson inquiry was set up to
inquire into the police investigation of the murder of a black teenager Stephen
Lawrence. It found a widespread culture of institutional racism embedded in the
structures of the police, thus rendering the latter's operation discriminatory.
Several years after these inquiries, not much seems to have changed in the way
ethnic minorities are policed as exemplified in the recent bout of race riots
.The perception of black and ethnic minority communities as being over-policed
as suspects and under-policed as victims has come to prevail in ethnic
minorities as a consequence. Figures from various sources seem to back up this
view with one source asserting that black and ethnic minorities were nine times
more likely to be stopped and searched as compared to their white
counterparts.However, more germane to the current debate is the growing number
of deaths of members of ethnic minorities in police custody or police shooting
as compared to the situation regarding the whites. Writing in the Guardian, Nina
Power, an astute commentator on criminal justice and policing issues, has
suggested a figure of over 400 deaths of members of black and ethnic minorities
in police custody since 1990. Yet no police officer has been convicted. This
figure does not include those who died as a consequence of racially motivated
violence.How have the ethnic and black communities reacted to discriminatory
policing and the racially motivated violence of the far right? Black and ethnic
minorities have responded by forming community defence groups led by members of
suffering families. In my research on this model of family-led campaigns, I
identified 84 family campaigns for justice running alone in 2006. The thread
that binds these family campaigns is the uniform demand for transparent and
sensitive ethnic policing and improved family-police communications on the
direction of police investigation in the case of a) racially motivated violence;
b) death in police custody and police shooting; and c) death in suspicious
circumstances.On Aug 6, the family of Mark Duggan was continuing in the
tradition of family-led community campaigns when together with its supporters it
gathered outside the Tottenham police seeking the answer to the simple question
of how Duggan came to be shot. When the family, supported by the community, was
turned away without being seen by senior-level police officers the vigil turned
violent.With pre-existing, adverse social conditions that include a number of
factors like unemployment, pared-down youth services and substandard sink
estates, this inadvertent and insensitive snub to the dead man's family lit the
spark that erupted into flames of violence engulfing Tottenham, that has
witnessed previous riots, and other parts of London, and spreading to other
British cities.One grieving family's anger at being unjustly treated tapped into
wider social pathologies, leading to copycat riots in other boroughs with
similarly depressed socio-economic profiles. The race riots call for sober
reflection on what went wrong. Given the multiple and complex conditions and
mindsets underpinning the current riots it would be unproductive to treat the
violence as a purely law and order issue as is apparent from the official
response. The need for looking at wider social triggers and underlying causes
has never been more urgent if race riots are to be contained in the future.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Sunday Times. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Sunday Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             671 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     April 20, 2016 Wednesday 11:06 AM GMT

Mayor's office will not foot bill for London riots compensation

BYLINE: Tristan Kirk

SECTION: LONDON

LENGTH: 423 words


Boris Johnson has won a Supreme Court compensation fight with insurance
companies following the 2011 London riots.

The dispute centred on damage caused to a Sony warehouse in Enfield, north
London, during rioting in August 2011, and the provisions of a piece of
Victorian legislation - the 1886 Riot Damages Act.

Supreme Court justices analysed legal argument at a hearing in London in January
and published their ruling on Wednesday.

They concluded that the mayor's office should not have to pay compensation for
loss of profit and rent.

Mr Johnson had asked for a Supreme Court ruling following hearings in the High
Court and Court Of Appeal.

Judges had been told that the 1886 legislation said compensation for "damage by
riot" should be paid out of police funds.

A number of insurance companies had argued that the destruction and looting of
the Sony warehouse fell into that category.

Mr Johnson - whose office funds the Metropolitan Police - disagreed.

A High Court judge had ruled that the Sony warehouse was damaged during
"widespread civil disorder".

Mr Justice Flaux said losses had arisen out of damage caused by "persons
riotously and tumultuously assembled" and should be paid for out of police
funds.

But he decided that there was a limit to liability - and said "consequential
losses", including loss of profit and rent, were not "in principle recoverable".

Insurers challenged his decision on the "extent of liability" - and the Court of
Appeal ruled in their favour.

Appeal judges concluded that legislation provided a right to compensation for
consequential loss.

Read more

Battle over London riots compensation reaches the Supreme Court

Two police officers sacked over vile racist texts sent during London riots

Jihadist rapper filmed ranting at police on the first night of London riots in
Tottenham in 2011

Police horses and dogs awarded animal OBE for helping during London riots

Taxpayers face £10m bill to compensate firms looted in London riots

But five Supreme Court justices have overturned that appeal court decision in
the wake of Mr Johnson's challenge.

They have concluded that the Riot Damages Act does not "extend to cover
consequential losses".

Mr Justice Flaux had said insurers claimed that losses added up to more than £60
million - and their claims included a £9.8 million claim for lost profit and a
£1.6 million claim for lost rent.

The warehouse was destroyed late on August 8 2011 during rioting in London and
other parts of Britain after a man was shot and killed by police in Tottenham,
north London, judges had heard.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2016 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             672 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           February 10, 2015 Tuesday

Riot police hone skills before heading for peace-keeping

LENGTH: 294  words


total of 140 members of the squad, who will start off in March for an
eight-month UN peace-keeping mission in Liberia, took part in a drill in Jinan,
capital of east China's Shandong Province, Feb 9, 2015.

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, the capital of East China's Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015.
[Photo/Xinhua]

A total of 140 members of the squad, who will start off in March for an
eight-month UN peacekeeping mission in Liberia, took part in a drill in Jinan,
the capital of East China's Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. It is the third
group of Chinese riot police to head for the western African country.

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia take part in a drill in
Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Qiao Lihua, a member of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia, examines her
shooting scores during a drill in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015.
[Photo/Xinhua]

Members of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia take part in a drill in
Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             673 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           February 10, 2015 Tuesday

Riot police hone skills before heading for peace-keeping

LENGTH: 294  words


total of 140 members of the squad, who will start off in March for an
eight-month UN peace-keeping mission in Liberia, took part in a drill in Jinan,
capital of east China's Shandong Province, Feb 9, 2015.

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, the capital of East China's Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015.
[Photo/Xinhua]

A total of 140 members of the squad, who will start off in March for an
eight-month UN peacekeeping mission in Liberia, took part in a drill in Jinan,
the capital of East China's Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. It is the third
group of Chinese riot police to head for the western African country.

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia take part in a drill in
Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Qiao Lihua, a member of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia, examines her
shooting scores during a drill in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015.
[Photo/Xinhua]

Members of Chinese riot squad to be sent to Liberia take part in a drill in
Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

Members of the riot squad headed to Liberia display their skills during a drill
in Jinan, Shandong province, Feb 9, 2015. [Photo/Xinhua]

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             674 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                       March 16, 1999 Tuesday 2D EDITION

Olney Springs prison riot exposes problems

BYLINE: By Kit Miniclier, Denver Post Staff Writer

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-01

LENGTH: 783 words


Handling of a riot earlier this month in the private, for-profit prison at Olney
Springs - which required riot-control teams from four state prisons to quell -
has drawn sharp criticism from officials and prompted the director of Colorado's
prison system to call for changes Monday.

"Indications are the staff was not as well trained as it could have been," and
future contracts with private prisons will emphasize "proper training," said
John Suthers, executive director of the Colorado Department of Corrections.

During the March 5 incident, described Monday by state and private prison
officials as a riot, a prison guard's jaw was fractured by an inmate, four
inmates were injured by rubber bullets fired by riot-control officers and
hundreds of inmates were gassed by private guards, according to confidential
Colorado Department of Corrections files made available Monday to The Denver
Post.

No one was killed or hospitalized, officials said Monday.

It was the second disturbance at the prison, known as the Crowley County
Correctional Facility, which opened last fall. It is the only prison in Colorado
operated by Correctional Services Corporation. Private prisons often take
out-of-state inmates, and this one has about 100 prisoners from Wyoming and 256
from Washington state, as well as nearly 400 Colorado inmates.

Before highly trained riot-control teams from state prisons in Ordway, Canon
City, Pueblo and Limon were able to respond to requests for help, local prison
guards filled the air inside two cell blocks - which held 500 inmates - with a
riot-control gas.

They used so much that the air remained "saturated     throughout recovery
operations," which lasted through the night, said the official "after-action
report" by the Special Operations Response Team from CDOC in Canon City.

Suthers said state intervention was justified to protect the welfare of Colorado
prisoners within the private facility and the welfare of the public outside. He
wants to review and strengthen state contracts with private prisons to clarify
and "expand the right for us to intervene," in the wake of the Olney Springs
riot.

Today, four private prisons in Colorado house one of every five Colorado state
(as opposed to federal) prisoners. Gov. Bill Owens has said that figure might go
up to nearly one in three during his tenure. Lunch request sparks riot

The riot began at lunchtime after a recently arrived prisoner from Washington
repeatedly asked in vain for a peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich, said Dick Marr,
deputy warden and assistant emergency commander at Olney Springs. Marr is the
former warden of the state's nearby Arkansas Valley Correctional Facility in
Ordway.

In less than three hours, the waves of unrest and tension escalated and inmates
seized two cell blocks, containing about 500 inmates, flooded the cell blocks,
smashed everything in sight, tried to set fires, and poured water, oil and soap
on the floor to make it slippery, the report states.

As the situation deteriorated, Marr called the Ordway prison and requested the
first emergency-response team. By 3:55 p.m., a unit of the corrections
department's Special Operations Response Team was activated, followed by the
other emergency-response teams. Damage about $ 10,000

Marr estimated damage to the new facility at $ 10,000. However, Liz McDonough of
corrections said the private prison firm will probably be billed for the 56
state employees who rushed to assist the private guards in restoring order.

Within a month of its opening last fall, the prison experienced a two-day
lockdown, transferred several troublesome inmates elsewhere, fired two employees
and accepted three resignations. Correctional Services Corporation has contracts
to run 36 other local, state and federal facilities housing 9,910 prisoners in
the United States and in Puerto Rico.

After last fall's lockdown, warden Mark McKinna told The Denver Post that
roughly 70 percent of his guard staff hadn't had any prison experience, although
all must undergo a four-week training course.

"Inmates can be very demanding and aggressive and threatening, getting in your
face and pushing as far as they can     there is a natural animosity until they
(inmates and guards) develop a mutual respect," McKinna said.

Problems were compounded recently because new Washington prisoners had been
permitted to wear their own shoes and personal clothing in their previous prison
and were allowed to have conjugal visits.

Uniforms, stringent discipline and no conjugal visits are among the stricter
measures they encountered - and objected to - in Olney Springs.

The prison is designed to eventually hold 900 prisoners.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The Denver Post Inmates riot at Olney Springs prison (map)

                        Copyright 1999 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             675 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     June 12, 1993, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Lessons for Montreal to ponder

BYLINE: GAZETTE

SECTION: EDITORIAL/OP-ED; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 377 words


Claude Ryan made a quick, smart move when he asked Judge Albert Malouf to
examine Wednesday night's riot. Judge Malouf, famed for his inquiry into Olympic
Games overspending, is about as credible an investigator as Quebec has.

But even before he starts work, a few things are already obvious.

One is that the Montreal Urban Community police blew it. Everyone on the force,
from chief Alain St-Germain down, took the prospect of a riot seriously. Nearly
1,000 officers were deployed, including the riot squad. Yet a riot happened, far
worse than the one in 1986.

So what went wrong was presumably a matter of tactics and operational skill.
(Mr. St-Germain's angry remarks that the Charter of Rights hamstrings police can
be excused as the frustration of a man under enormous pressure; normally, he is
admirably respectful of human rights.) Clearly, the MUC police needs better riot
training.

This does not mean calling in the tanks. But how is it, for example, that on
Wednesday night some officers were not called into service for half an hour or
more? How is it that the riot squad did not position itself to head off the
advancing wave of vandals and looters as they moved east?

The second obvious thing is that, however flawed their control of it may have
been, this riot was not the police's fault. They did not conduct it or provoke
it.

The real culprits are the rioters. Some of the vandals were criminals who just
took advantage of the occasion - but the occasion was provided by thousands of
otherwise normal people who thought it was fun to go on a rampage.

Nowhere is it written that winning a sports series is an excuse for rioting,
vandalism and looting. The Canadiens won 22 Stanley Cups without provoking any
riots, and that is the way it should be in the future. Any Montrealer who
participated in Wednesday's riot should be ashamed.

Finally, here is a third element to ponder. To what extent is violence on the
street linked to tolerance of violence on the ice? What is the social effect of
a Don Cherry, deriding players who avoid brawls? Sometimes the crowds sound like
Romans watching gladiators fight to the death.

There are many places to lay blame, many consciences to search in the wake of
Wednesday's shame.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             676 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                            December 31, 2007 Monday

Family stories lead to Civil War book

BYLINE: By Rob Stroud;Rob.stroud@lee.net

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 597 words


CHARLESTON - As a youth, Peter Barry was told in "hushed tones" about his
ancestors being in the Civil War-related Charleston Riot that killed at least
nine people.

Family stories made mention of his ancestors taking their guns to the courthouse
square by wagon covered with straw, engaging in a big fight, and being wanted
for murder.

The Charleston native wanted to find out more about his ancestors' fight with
Union soldiers, but his grandparents did not know a lot. His research has
yielded a book, "The Charleston, Illinois Riot March 28, 1864," that
incorporates information from Barry's 2004 riot article in the Journal of
Illinois History.

"I had several ancestors who were involved in the riot. In a way, it is telling
their story," Barry said of the book.

Barry, who is a retired agricultural finance professor at the University of
Illinois, is a descendent of the Frazier and O'Hair families that were involved
in the riot. The book's cover photo shows his great-great-grandfather, James
William Frazier.

In the first three chapters, readers are introduced to the Fraziers, O'Hairs and
related families, and the circumstances that led up to the riot.

Barry does not think the riot was premeditated. He said the riot was sparked by
Southern-sympathizing residents, often referred to as Copperheads, being
harassed by Union soldiers in Coles and Edgar counties. He said the Copperheads
harassed the soldiers in turn.

The two groups collided on March 28, 1864, as detailed in chapter four. Large
crowds were on the square that day due to the opening of the spring session of
the circuit court and the scheduling of a Democratic rally. Furloughed soldiers
also were passing through the square and its bars on their way to muster back
into service in Mattoon.

Gunfire soon erupted that killed six soldiers and three residents, and wounded
about a dozen others. Some witnesses claimed the casualty figure was even
higher. Barry writes that the riot generated grave concern from Union
commanders, rejoicing from some Confederates, and coverage from newspapers
throughout the country.

"It was not known whether it was a general uprising or something specific to
Coles County," Barry said. "It was really a newsworthy event at that time."

Barry writes about the escape from Charleston of several community leaders,
including Coles County Sheriff John O'Hair, involved in the riot. He also writes
about the plight of 15 Coles County prisoners who were arrested and held by the
military soon after the riot.

After seven months of imprisonment without charges for most nor trials for any,
President Abraham Lincoln issued a release order on Nov. 4, 1864. Friends of
Lincoln, who had family ties in Coles County, lobbied him intensely to release
the prisoners. Barry saw related documents while researching at the National
Archives.

"There were petitions sent to him with hundreds of signatures of Coles County
residents seeking the release of the prisoners," Barry said.

The book's final chapters cover the subsequent experiences of those involved in
the riot and successful efforts to clear their legal records.

There are also chapters devoted to Judge Charles Constable, a Democrat who had
been harassed by Union soldiers and was presiding in court when the riot
occurred, and Amos Green, a Paris lawyer who was a high-ranking member of the
Southern-sympathizing Sons of Liberty secret society.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Pantagraph


                             677 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

...AND ANOTHER THING

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 308 words


PERHAPS Justin Madden wasn't so bad after all. Alexandra Shabin, Woodend

Planning

DECISIONS behind closed doors based on lobbying by influential former
politicians on behalf of their party member friends stinks.

Derek Wilson, Cheltenham

BRIAN Tee, since when does the act of a developer suing the Planning Minister
mean the competency of the minister is in doubt (The Age, 15/2)?

Christine Schulz, Lara

Policing

THE riot squad nearly caused a riot when evicting the Occupiers last year. By
doubling the riot squad, they may be more successful.

Mark Bradbeer, Brunswick

IS THE Chief Commissioner expecting this year's Moomba parade to degenerate into
a free-for-all?

Bryan Fraser, St Kilda

WHY do we need more riot police? With the latest job losses, is there a fear we
will have massive riots in the street? I don't think so.

Mary Fenelon, Collingwood

SURE will be handy having an extra 60 riot police. They should be able to
persuade all those cows to stay out of the high country.

Lawry Mahon, Footscray

Health insurance

SO IT'S OK to means test the Newstart allowance and age/disability pensions, but
it's class warfare if a means test is applied to taxpayer subsidies for health
insurance.

Gary Sayer, Warrnambool

TONY Abbott promises to scrap the means test "as soon as we can" (The Age,
16/2). That's what my son says when asked to take out the rubbish, but he never
does.

Henry Herzog, St Kilda East

TONY Abbott proves "no millionaire will be left behind" with his health
insurance rebate vow.

Stephen Bickell, Dandenong North

Finally

WHY is the opposition so relentlessly negative? Easy. Force of Abbott.

Geoff Hjorth, Albert Park

FRANKIE Rowlands (Letters, 16/2) is on to it. Methinks, however, that to earn
such ire, Gillard must have not only pinched Michelle Grattan's cornflakes, but
her orange juice, eggs, coffee and morning papers too.

Gary Greenway, Northcote

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: BY RON TANBERG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             678 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                    NewsDay

                              June 24, 2016 Friday

Pictures:Protestors demand immediate evacuation of Vp Mphoko - NewsDay Zimbabwe

LENGTH: 375  words


THERE was commotion at the Rainbow Towers Hotel in Harare Friday as a group of
protesters stormed the hotel demanding the immediate removal of Vice President,
Phelekezeka Mphoko.

All pictures by Tafadzwa Ufumeli

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protesters inside the Rainbow Towers Hotel

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protesters before his arrest.

Riot Police drags Stan Zvorwadza

A riot police officer manhandles a protester

Anti riot police gang up to lift up a protester who was resisting arrest

Anti riot police pushes Stan Zworwadza into a police truck

Riot police gang up to pull Zvorwadza who had jumped off the moving truck

Police forces Zvorwadza into the truck

Zvorwadza lies hurt on the tarmac after falling from the police truck

A police officer holds Zvorwadza by his trousers

Police puts Zvorwadza in the truck.

Zvorwadza continues to chants as  he his finally overpowered

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/69/146678515243.jpg

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protestors inside the Raibow Towers Hotel

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/61/146678515455.jpg

Stan Zvorwadza addressing protesters before his arrest.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/94/146678515678.jpg

Riot Police drags Stan Zvorwadza outside the Hotel

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/25/146678515854.jpg

A riot police officer drags a protestor in full sight of a chinese boy inside
the hotel

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/99/146678516102.jpg

Riot police gang up to lift up a protester who was resisting to be arrested

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/43/146678516285.jpg

Riot police pushes Stan Zworwadza inside the truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/88/146678516468.jpg

Riot police gang up to pull Stan Zvorwadza who had jumped off the moving truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/76/146678516640.jpg

Police puts Zvorwadza in the truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/88/146678516836.jpg

Zvorwadza lies on the ground after falling from the Police truck

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/57/146678516999.jpg

A police officer holds Zvorwadza's trousers whilst lying on the ground

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/42/146678517174.jpg

Police puts Zvorwadza in the truck.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/21/146678517347.jpg

Zvorwadza continues with his chants after being arrested by police.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1279


                             Copyright 2016 NewsDay
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             679 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Arthur Enterprise News

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Techno-vigilanteism not Canadian

BYLINE: Arthur Enterprise News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 707  words


"If you feel so empty/So used up, so let down... Refusing to back down/You're
not the only one/So get up/Let's start a riot, a riot..." - Let's Start a Riot
by Three Days Grace.

The Canadian rock group, not exactly known for its positive, upbeat music, seems
to put in words a certain nihilist feeling embraced by a small minority of young
people.

There have always been idealistic, frustrated youth with a thirst for
excitement. They usually find it, too, and for the most part it is a good thing
they do. The ideals Canadians hold so dear - civil rights, equality, and
responsible government - were not dreamed up and fought for by sedate and
settled elders, but by young dreamers who refused to accept the status quo. The
only new element is when they start a riot these days, they are posting the
photos on Facebook.

Remove idealism from the equation, and all that remains is anarchy, or in the
case of the recent Vancouver hockey riot, a mob of drunken louts looting stores
and setting fire to police cruisers. The perpetrators were not trying to make a
political statement, or fighting for any lofty cause. In fact, most were not
even disgruntled hockey fans. They were just thieves and vandals.

Some came with a plan - that riot was about as spontaneous as a politician's
photo op. Some of the people milling around after the game joined the mayhem
while others took photos with their cell phone cameras. Sensible folk appear to
have left the area as fast as they could.

Had the riot occurred in a less technologically advanced age, all that would
remain at this point would be a few court appearances. But then, in a less
technologically advanced age, the riot might not have occurred. Someone may have
taken a swing at a Bruins fan who got a bit lippy or celebrated too openly. That
perpetrator may have been charged. That would have been the extent of it.

Enter the cell phone camera, Facebook and Twitter. Some of the louts are alleged
to have used social media to plan the riot, showing up with tools to start fires
and smash windows. The speed at which the violence and looting erupted speaks
volumes, and it was recorded by a veritable army of observers with cameras. But
what happened after the riot is where social media took off the gloves.

Everyone seems to be getting into the act of punishing the rioters. Police are
having a field day sifting through thousands of images people recorded during
the riot and handed over to them as any good citizen should, and even some
Facebook postings. Some rioters have been identified and charged. Others have
been shamed into turning themselves in - photos posted on Facebook, accompanied
by threats, have proved to be a powerful force. But is it a force for good or
evil?

To our credit as Canadians, many of us are asking that particular question. No
one has a problem with police asking the public for help, and using the photos
to help build a case. But we find something profoundly disturbing about people
being charged, found guilty and punished by anyone with a website, blog or
Facebook account, and a taste for vigilante justice.

Putting people in stocks in the village square, tattooing "thief" or whatever on
their foreheads, and other forms of public shaming were replaced a long time ago
by due process of law, for a million excellent reasons.

A photo of a grinning person near an overturned police car does nothing other
than show someone being stupid in the vicinity of a crime scene, not an
indictable offence. If the police determine it is evidence of a crime, and if
the courts determine a particular person and not a look-alike is guilty, then by
all means let the courts impose an appropriate punishment. Posting that photo on
Facebook along with name, address, scathing denunciations and suggestions he be
horsewhipped, in essence gives a life sentence to someone who might not be
guilty. People have been hounded to suicide with less.

Canada Day is almost here. We need to celebrate the fact we live in a country
where people have rights, not a totalitarian state where neighbours spy on
neighbours and everyone walks around in fear of being denounced. We need to
protect those rights. And the techno-vigilantes need to holster their weapons.

Guest editorial by Pauline Kerr

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             680 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             Wingham Advance-Times

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Techno-vigilanteism not Canadian

BYLINE: Wingham Advance Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701  words


"If you feel so empty/So used up, so let down... Refusing to back down/You're
not the only one/So get up/Let's start a riot, a riot..." - Let's Start a Riot
by Three Days Grace.

The Canadian rock group, not exactly known for its positive, upbeat music, seems
to put in words a certain nihilist feeling embraced by a small minority of young
people.

There have always been idealistic, frustrated youth with a thirst for
excitement. They usually find it, too, and for the most part it is a good thing
they do. The ideals Canadians hold so dear - civil rights, equality, and
responsible government - were not dreamed up and fought for by sedate and
settled elders, but by young dreamers who refused to accept the status quo. The
only new element is when they start a riot these days, they are posting the
photos on Facebook.

Remove idealism from the equation, and all that remains is anarchy, or in the
case of the recent Vancouver hockey riot, a mob of drunken louts looting stores
and setting fire to police cruisers. The perpetrators were not trying to make a
political statement, or fighting for any lofty cause. In fact, most were not
even disgruntled hockey fans. They were just thieves and vandals.

Some came with a plan - that riot was about as spontaneous as a politician's
photo op. Some of the people milling around after the game joined the mayhem
while others took photos with their cell phone cameras. Sensible folk appear to
have left the area as fast as they could.

Had the riot occurred in a less technologically advanced age, all that would
remain at this point would be a few court appearances. But then, in a less
technologically advanced age, the riot might not have occurred. Someone may have
taken a swing at a Bruins fan who got a bit lippy or celebrated too openly. That
perpetrator may have been charged. That would have been the extent of it.

Enter the cell phone camera, Facebook and Twitter. Some of the louts are alleged
to have used social media to plan the riot, showing up with tools to start fires
and smash windows. The speed at which the violence and looting erupted speaks
volumes, and it was recorded by a veritable army of observers with cameras. But
what happened after the riot is where social media took off the gloves.

Everyone seems to be getting into the act of punishing the rioters. Police are
having a field day sifting through thousands of images people recorded during
the riot and handed over to them as any good citizen should, and even some
Facebook postings. Some rioters have been identified and charged. Others have
been shamed into turning themselves in - photos posted on Facebook, accompanied
by threats, have proved to be a powerful force. But is it a force for good or
evil?

To our credit as Canadians, many of us are asking that particular question. No
one has a problem with police asking the public for help, and using the photos
to help build a case. But we find something profoundly disturbing about people
being charged, found guilty and punished by anyone with a website, blog or
Facebook account, and a taste for vigilante justice.

Putting people in stocks in the village square, tattooing "thief" or whatever on
their foreheads, and other forms of public shaming were replaced a long time ago
by due process of law, for a million excellent reasons.

A photo of a grinning person near an overturned police car does nothing other
than show someone being stupid in the vicinity of a crime scene, not an
indictable offence. If the police determine it is evidence of a crime, and if
the courts determine a particular person and not a look-alike is guilty, then by
all means let the courts impose an appropriate punishment. Posting that photo on
Facebook along with name, address, scathing denunciations and suggestions he be
horsewhipped, in essence gives a life sentence to someone who might not be
guilty. People have been hounded to suicide with less.

Canada Day is almost here. We need to celebrate the fact we live in a country
where people have rights, not a totalitarian state where neighbours spy on
neighbours and everyone walks around in fear of being denounced. We need to
protect those rights. And the techno-vigilantes need to holster their weapons.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             681 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

China's Xinhua says UK riots show need to protect ethnic minorities' rights

LENGTH: 670 words


Text of report in Chinese by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 10 August: After the London riots, the same picture of unrest was seen
in Manchester, Birmingham, Nottingham and other cities on 9 August. It is said
that the scale of the riots in Manchester was "never seen in 30 years."

The riots in so many British cities attracted grave concern across the world.
British Home Secretary Theresa May called the riots "outright crimes," but
violent clashes of such magnitude cannot be summed up by a simple remark. The
fact is, economic woes and wavering policies that prevailed in the West have
precipitated "disillusionment" and "anti-social" sentiments in society,
especially among young people, causing them to make troubles with extremist
feelings. As the British paper Guardian said: The riots are "outbursts of wrath
and signs of multiple failures."

"Who moved my cheese" was the deep-seated social mentality of the British riots.
"I came here to get my penny's worth," said a 19-year-old London youth who gave
his name as James. Although this was a "lame excuse," it was a dramatic
reflection of the "valley echoes" of changes in economic and social policies.

These days, from rioting Britain to countries like Greece and Italy that are up
deep in the quagmire of debts, most western countries are seeking means to cut
deficits and suppress public spending. They are doing this not just to "repay
debts" but also to sustain their fragile recovery. A direct effect of this is
that the great disruption in social welfare programs, which had been "generous"
for a long time, is hitting multiple social strata. This is the precise reason
why there were not only "the penniless from the grottoes" but also young people
of financially sound background among those taking part in the British riots.

This kind of social ecology in Britain led to the concentrated eruption of
violence among some young people. According to statistics, about 1 million
people between 16 and 24 years of age are "officially unemployed," a record high
since the worst recession in the mid-1980s. Their anxiety about the present
straitened circumstances and their bewilderment about economic prospects were
easily ignited by gunshots in the clashes. Microblogging, mobile phones and
other modern means of communication together pushed young people to the "abyss"
of irrationality and anarchism.

From financial crisis to the present debt crisis and sluggish growth, the
deep-seated structural contradictions in western economies and societies
continuously surfaced and found reflection in extreme ways in the British riots.
This is an alarm of the risk of "unsustainability" of their policies and
underscores the dilemma of balancing economic and social needs in their policy
adjustment.

The British riots first broke out in an ethnic minority area. From the two riots
in Grenoble and Saint Aignan in France last year to Roma expulsions in many
European countries, immigrants and "sojourners" were often among the underlying
factors. We can see that in times of economic woes, xenophobic sentiments often
found more excuses and bigger markets and immigrant strata easily became the hot
spot triggering social contradictions. If people living on the margin of society
cannot even find a "marginal" foothold, they are likely to turn around and
attack society as a whole. The riots told us that cultural diversity is not just
a slogan and should become a rational awareness for looking after the rights of
the ethnic minorities and for social self-remediation.

The British writer Charles Dickens reflected the contradictions between labour
and capital in his 19th century book Hard Times. Today, contradictions in the
social system are showing up, even sharpening, in new forms. The recent riots
remind both the perpetrators and the government that they should reflect on
their role in society and the mode of development in more profound ways.

Source: Xinhua news agency domestic service, Beijing, in Chinese 0925gmt 10 Aug
11

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             682 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Star News (Wilmington NC)

                           November 10, 2003, Monday

Group seeks 1898 reparations; Send the proceeds to descendants of victims, they
say

BYLINE: Millard K. Ives, Staff Writer

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 1B, 5B

LENGTH: 660 words


On Sunday, a day before the 105th anniversary of Wilmington riots that left
blacks dead or run out of town, people at a workshop said they weren't concerned
with receiving apologies or memorials for the incident.

They didn't want any more "dog and pony shows" on the issue.

Just payback.

"It's time to open up the floodgates for reparations," said Larry Thomas,
founder of the International Organization for Compensation and Reparations for
the Wilmington Victims of 1898.

The meeting was held at the Edens Institute on North Fourth Street and was the
first workshop for the group.

Mr. Thomas told audience members the group's aim is to recover losses sustained
by the victims of the riots.

The organization is calling for the proceeds to be passed to descendants of the
victims.

Mr. Thomas said the group wants to help find evidence and legal documents to
assist in the restitution of the losses, as well as aid, and endorse any legal
process that will return the losses.

"It's an issue of trying to cure an injustice," said Mr. Thomas, a Wilmington
native who lives in Chapel Hill.

Resentful of years of black and Republican political rule, mobs of white men on
Nov. 10, 1898, killed several blacks - 14 by some estimates - ran dozens of
black leaders and their white Republican allies out of town and burned black
businesses.

H. Khalif Khalifah, co-chairman of the human rights commission of the National
Coalition of Blacks for Reparations in America, told the audience that even
though many people view reparations as a dirty word, he was optimistic of the
effort in Wilmington in light of other reparation awarded across the country.

In 1994, the Florida legislature decided to compensate victims of a Rosewood,
Fla., race riot with a $ 2.1 million package after residents of the
predominantly black community were killed or forced to flee in 1923 after a
black man there was accused of assaulting a white woman.

The city of Tulsa, Okla., has been sued by descendants of hundreds of blacks who
died in a 1921 race riot.

"Now it's our time," Mr. Khalifah said.

The Wilmington rioting essentially ousted the existing biracial elected city
government, causing some to call the incident more of a coup d'etat than a race
riot. Politics as well as economics and racism have been cited as the cause.

Mr. Thomas said he would welcome help from local politicians on seeking
reparations.

The organization has started circulating petitions to gather signatures of
residents in favor of recovering the losses, which includes the name of Duke
University professor emeritus John Hope Franklin, a Tulsa descendant.

The 1898 Wilmington Race Riot Commission, a group of state and local officials,
is currently studying the incident to write the state's official version of what
happened. The commission was not put together to study the possibilities of
reparations.

Kenneth Davis, a member of the commission, had said it would be too difficult to
identify the riot's victims and their families, as well as the perpetrators, to
try to seek any reparations.

An 1898 Foundation in Wilmington has a number of branches, one that led a
yearlong examination and commemoration of the race riots here. The 1898 Memorial
Park Foundation is proposing a memorial to honor the victims of the race riots.

About 20 people attended the workshop and some were critical of the two groups
for not seeking reparations, including Wilmington Journal editor Mary Alice
Thatch. She labeled some of their efforts to study the 1898 race riots as a "dog
and pony" show.

"I had people here in 1898, and I feel very strongly about it," Ms. Thatch said.

Kent Chatfield, a legal researcher, provided documents to the group he said he
received from the Lower Cape Fear Historical Society that shows how some white
leaders conspired to run blacks out of Wilmington.

"I wanted to identify who or what was behind the incident," Mr. Chatfield said.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAFF PHOTO GREG WOLF. Kent Chatfield shows a copy of what he said were
historical documents regarding the 1898 Wilmington riots, Sunday during a
workshop at the Edens Institute on North Fourth Street.

                            Copyright 2003 Star News


                             683 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Police recommend charges against 20 more in riots

BYLINE: Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 287  words

DATELINE: Vancouver


Vancouver police are recommending charges against 20 more people they believe
broke the law in the riots that followed last summer's Stanley Cup playoff
final.

Investigators say they are continuing to use the extensive video footage of the
game's aftermath to track down those they allege committed criminal acts the
night of the Stanley Cup riot.

The 20 new names bring the number of suspected rioters to 100. Vancouver police
Insp. Les Yeo said the Integrated Riot Investigation Team recommended 63
criminal charges against the latest group of 20. So far, 30 people have been
charged - with a total of 78 criminal offences - and the Crown has said it
expects to approve charges against 30 others by the end of the month.

"We've reached a milestone for our team," Yeo SAID. "The first 100, and as we
said all along, we are not going to give up."

In the case of the first batch of people charged, Yeo said police are seeing the
same faces pop up on video at different locations during the June 15 riot.

So far, Yeo said 82 per cent of riot suspects are from outside Vancouver.

Vancouver police will be adding "hundreds more" pictures of riot suspects to the
department's website.

Police believe a 15yearold is responsible for hitting a police cruiser with a
metal fence. They say he helped flip over another vehicle and then stole some
property from the trunk; he has no criminal record and could face mischief,
theft and riot charges.

Meanwhile, the first person to plead guilty in the riot, Ryan Dickinson, was in
court Tuesday with his lawyer, who plans to argue against having Dickinson's
sentencing hearing broadcast on television. The provincial government wants all
riot-related cases televised, but that has yet to be approved.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2012 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                             684 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

Española man: Forgotten Guardsmen suffering effects of 1980 prison riot

BYLINE: Steve Terrell, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


Aug. 13--Floyd Garcia held the horror inside for 30 years following the gruesome
New Mexico State Penitentiary riot.

"And then the volcano erupted," he said.

Garcia, an Española resident, was a member of the state National Guard in
February 1980 when rioting prisoners took over and killed 33 of their fellow
inmates. Garcia said his unit was one of the first to arrive on the scene when
Gov. Bruce King called in the National Guard.

Being assigned to the duty of removing "dead, mutilated, burned" bodies from the
prison -- and having to wade through water in the building polluted with "raw
sewage, blood and body parts" -- left him with post-traumatic stress disorder,
he said in an interview Tuesday.

Speaking about himself and other Guard members who responded to the riot, Garcia
said he feels that the National Guard and the state have "left us out in the
cold for the last 30 [plus] years."

"We're trying to get the state to take responsibility ... for what was done to
us," he said. "We never got any counseling, briefing or debriefing after the
riot. We served our community, our state, our country."

Garcia said he has spoken with lawyers but has never filed a lawsuit against the
state.

Capt. Brian Raphael, a spokesman for the National Guard, said Tuesday that the
Guard is looking into the complaints of Garcia and others in an attempt to make
sure they have documentation necessary to get workers' compensation benefits.

Since 1980, there has been much written that documents the horrors of the riot,
the inmates who were killed and the corrections officers who were taken hostage
during the ordeal. But little has been written about the Guard troops or the
police officers who had to go into the prison after the slaughter had ceased.

Garcia said he was 20 years old when the riot took place. His wife was expecting
their first baby.

Because of his psychological condition, Garcia said, he never was able to work
after leaving the Guard. "I suffered nightmares, flashbacks. It affected my
relationship with my family, my social relationships. It hurt me. ... I haven't
even been able to barbecue since the riot, because the smell brings me back to
the smell of burning flesh at the riot.

"I held it all in for 30 years," he said, before his inner "volcano" erupted.

In 2012, after about a week of sleepless nights -- and watching his weight drop
from about 177 pounds to 143 pounds -- he said, "I knew I had to go to a doctor.
Fortunately, my doctor referred me to the right people, and I got to see
psychologists and psychiatrists." During this time, he was diagnosed with PTSD.

"I'm stable now, but it's never going to get better," he said.

Garcia is luckier than other Guardsmen, he said. Some of his friends who were
deployed during the prison riot later succumbed to drug and alcohol abuse. And
some committed suicide.

Garcia said he has contacted many government officials in recent years. While
some have expressed sympathy and promised to look into his situation, he's
mostly been frustrated with the efforts. "It took me two years to get the forms
for workman's comp," he said.

He said he's written a memoir about his struggles after the riot. "It's called
The Forgotten Ones. They sent us to do this job, and they forgot about us."

Contact Steve Terrell at sterrell@sfnewmexican.com Read his political blog at
www.santafenewmexican.com/news/blogs/politics.

___ (c)2014 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140813-SF-Española-man-Forgotten-Guardsmen-suffering-effects-of-1980-prison-
riot-0813-20140813

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2014 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             685 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              India Insurance News

                      November 8, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

ABI Response to Publication of the Riot Damages Act Review

LENGTH: 250  words


New Delhi, Nov. 8 -- An independent review of the Riot (Damages) Act 1886,
commissioned by the Home Office, has been published today (November 8, 2013).



Commenting on the publication, ABI Director General, Otto Thoresen, said:

"Overall, we welcome the findings of this report, although there are several
aspects that will concern insurers and their customers.

"The riots of August 2011 highlighted both the value of insurance, with insurers
paying out over 200 million to customers, and the importance of the purpose of
the Riot Damages Act, so we welcome this report's finding that the principle of
police accountability should be retained in new legislation.

"The recommendation that insurers should continue to be able to recover from the
State certain riot payments made to customers is vital if riot cover is to be
affordable and available. And the proposal to set up a riot claims bureau will
cut down the current bureaucratic process to ensure that uninsured riot victims
receive compensation much quicker.

"However, we are concerned that the review recommends that insurer recoveries
from the State should be restricted to businesses that turn over less than 2
million a year. This could be a disincentive for some larger firms to locate in
some areas. And, disappointingly, it is not recommended that consequential
losses should be covered by new legislation, meaning further losses for
uninsured firms. The Government should carry out an impact assessment on the
impact of both of these proposals."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             686 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

BRIEF: 9 Inmates, a Few Officers Injured in Prison Riot

BYLINE: Sam Cohen and Teri Cox, KTXL-TV, Sacramento, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 203 words


Dec. 07--FOLSOM -- Nine ambulances were called to a California state prison
Wednesday after a riot that left several inmates injured.

The riot is now contained at the California State Prison-Sacramento, also known
as the new Folsom Prison.

A total of 9 inmates have a variety of stab and gunshot wounds, no word how
serious they are. A few correctional officers were injured, but they are minor
injuries.

Four of the inmates that were sent to the hospital have already been released as
of 5:15 p.m.

The riot happened around 12:30 in the afternoon in the main exercise yard.
Officials say it lasted about 10 minutes and involved about 50 people.

When asked if 10 minutes was long for a prison riot, Dept. of Corrections' Sgt.
Tony Quinn said it's "extremely long."

Officers used pepper spray, non-lethal and lethal rounds to get the riot under
control.

"We know at least seven rounds of lethal were fired," said Quinn.

Officials at the Prison told FOX40 there was also a riot on Monday.

California State Prison-Sacramento, which opened in 1986, houses around 2,800
inmates and 1,700 staff members.

___ (c)2011 KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) Visit KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) at
www.fox40.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111207-5KT-BRF-9-Inmates-a-Few-Officers-Injured-in-Prison-Riot
-1207-20111207

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 5KT


                                 Copyright 2011


                             687 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Oklahoman

                             July 16, 2005 Saturday
                                  City Edition

Five inmates charged in fatal prison riot

BYLINE: Chad Previch, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: CUSHING


Five more inmates were charged Friday in connection to a March 22 riot that left
one inmate dead and 13 injured.

Nathaniel O. Griffin, Arthur C. Jones, Martin D. Reed Jr., Jackie D. Ruble and
Kentrel Wimms were charged with participating in a riot which resulted in a
death, Payne County District Attorney Rob Hudson said.

Hudson could seek the death penalty on that charge.

Sedarfes Moore, Eugene Gutierrez, Cedric D. Poore, Shawn Byrd, Jason Williamson
and Mark Ford previously were charged with first-degree murder, but those
charges have been amended to the riot charge.

Eric M. Johnson has been charged with first-degree murder, and prosecutors think
he's the one who fatally stabbed Adam Lippert, 32, with a homemade knife at the
Cimarron Correctional Facility, Assistant District Attorney Tom Lee said Friday.

"The riot statute in this state states that when a death occurs during a riot,
the participants in the riot can be punished in the same manner as the principal
defendant in the case," Hudson said.

About 65 prisoners in two gangs fought March 22 in a recreational area of the
privately operated Cimarron Correctional Facility. Lippert was fatally stabbed
during the riot in which inmates used aluminum bats, horseshoes and homemade
weapons.

All 12 inmates charged are now in the Oklahoma State Penitentiary in McAlester,
Lee said.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             688 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2006 by the President and Fellows of Harvard
                                    College
                        Harvard BlackLetter Law Journal

                                  Spring, 2006

                          22 Harv. BlackLetter J. 145

LENGTH: 1823 words

TRIBUTE: CHARLES OGLETREE AND TULSA RIOT VICTIMS

NAME: Alfred Brophy *

BIO:



   * Professor of Law, University of Alabama.

 TEXT:
 [*145]  Like most people in this country, I first saw Charles Ogletree when he
represented Anita Hill during the Senate confirmation hearings for Clarence
Thomas in September 1991. He was, like Hill and Thomas, the center of a national
story. In that era before the Simpson trial, before the Oklahoma City bombing,
before September 11, and before the Internet, it was a rare moment of national
focus and of national division as well. At the vortex of this tremendous moment,
Ogletree had a poise and power that seemed well beyond his age.

   He appeared as an iconic figure, larger than life, a man with extraordinary
presence who, with virtually no time to prepare, led Professor Hill through a
grueling process. I knew that he had been a public defender in Washington, D.C.,
before he became a professor at Harvard, the most powerful and prestigious of
schools. For years afterward, when I thought of the ideal lawyer, who stood up
against long odds for people with little power, I thought of Charles Ogletree.
In the years since, I have been fortunate enough to have the chance to work with
him and to see that the image matches reality.

   In January of 2000, I began working on a book on the Tulsa Race Riot of 1921,
and I attended a meeting that Randall Robinson convened at the TransAfrica Forum
to discuss the growing reparations movement. I distinctly remember meeting
Ogletree. My initial impression was that he was, well, much younger than I
expected. I recall marveling at how someone so distinguished could be so young.

   A group of scholars who had written about reparations, including Ibrahim
Gassama, Mari Matsuda, Ali Mazrui, Robert Westley, and Eric Yamamoto, met with
activist lawyers like Robinson and Ogletree and politicians like Representative
John Conyers, and those who were just then beginning to work on reparations
cases. There was much discussion of strategies in the nascent reparations
movement. What would we try to accomplish? How would we do it? C-SPAN was there
to record the discussion, and that meeting has since acquired a little fame,
though mostly among those who attack academics who write and litigate for
reparations. And therein lies a story.

   In 2001, the Oklahoma legislature's Tulsa Riot Commission completed its work,
confirming what we already knew: the Tulsa riot was an unprecedented breakdown
of the rule of law; much of the destruction was caused  [*146]  by men deputized
by the local police forces; there were promises made to help rebuild the
community that were not fulfilled; the courts were under the control of the Klan
in the years after the riot, and there were (and are) still people alive who
suffered during the riot. Along with the Riot Commission's acknowledgment of the
tremendous injustice done to the victims of the Tulsa Riot, sympathetic
journalists like Brent Staples of the New York Times, V. Dion Haynes of the
Chicago Tribune, Scott Gold of the Los Angeles Times, Arnold Hamilton of the
Dallas Morning News, and Andrew Meier of the Financial Times, published stories
that brought the riot and its atrocities to public attention. In fact, in the
fall of 2001, I had a book coming out on the Tulsa riot and Charles was kind
enough to lend his name to help promote the book. Many people began to look
seriously at Tulsa as a front on the reparations struggle. In short, Tulsa
looked to be an ideal place to seek reparations through the legislature or,
failing that, the judiciary.

   By the fall of 2002, when Charles spoke at the University of Tulsa College of
Law, the stars aligned so that he entered the struggle to fight for some manner
of justice for the Tulsa riot victims. Eric Miller, a reparations scholar who
had worked closely with Ogletree, had become convinced that Tulsa was the place
to go and began working to convert others to the cause. Over the next several
months, Charles and his colleagues at the Reparations Coordinating Committee,
like Robinson, Adjoa Ayetoto, Roy L. Brooks, and Ronald Walters, teamed up with
Washington, D.C., lawyers Michele Roberts, Michael Hausfeld, Agnieszka Fryszman,
and Suzette Mal-veaux, and with people in Tulsa like Leslie Mansfield of the
University of Tulsa College of Law, to prepare a complaint.

   The complaint, largely the brainchild of Ogletree and Eric Miller, was an
important product of critical race studies. Written like a history book, with
the assistance of Scott Ellsworth, the riot's leading historian, it chronicled
the destruction of the self-confident and increasingly prosperous black
community of Greenwood. The complaint cites critical race literature and the
newspapers and court records of the time. It represented what Mari Matsuda
called for back in 1987 in her article Looking to the Bottom: Critical Legal
Studies and Reparations,  n1 for it tells the story of the powerless and is an
attempt to have their claims fully heard, for the first time, more than eighty
years after they suffered at the hands of the government.

   I had the pleasure of working for Charles as we drafted the complaint and the
litigation team ran up to the filing deadline. I saw his rigorous legal mind,
which was leavened by a warm sense of humor. I recall particularly well one
light moment when he was talking with John Hope Franklin on the day of the
filing. Dr. Franklin and some of his childhood friends had some questions about
the case, and Ogletree took time for the call. Ogletree said, "This is your
lawyer, Dr. Franklin." What a moment, as Ogletree, a man who grew up in poverty,
attended Stanford University and then Harvard Law School, eventually becoming a
tenured professor at Harvard, spoke with the most distinguished African American
historian ever to live. Charles specializes in those moments, putting together
people who share interests in the use of law for the purpose of justice.

    [*147]  I could not help but draw parallels between Charles and some of the
leading civil rights advocates in Oklahoma around the time of the riot. Charles
took his direction from his intellectual ancestors, including Roscoe Dunjee, who
as editor of the Oklahoma City Black Dispatch preserved much important
information on the riot. Dunjee's fearless reporting preserved the text of the
front-page story in the Tulsa Tribune that was (in Dunjee's words) the "false
story that set Tulsa ablaze." The article serves as a testimony to the
segregation of memory of the riot that for years afterwards the front-page story
was believed missing. It had been torn from all extant copies of the Tribune, so
anyone looking to white sources would not have found it. But just a few weeks
after the riot, Dunjee had reprinted the complete story on the front page of his
newspaper. All it required was for someone to look at the black sources to find
the story and much other important information about the riot. Yet no one had
seen fit to look there for years. Dunjee had not only preserved the memory of
the riot, he urged Tulsa's riot victims to file a lawsuit in federal court.
Ogletree and his team complied with the advice given lo' those many years ago by
Mr. Dunjee.

   In February 2004, Charles and the rest of the legal team appeared in federal
court in Tulsa to argue against a motion to dismiss. It was an emotional day;
the lawyers for Tulsa were, to say the least, indifferent to the elderly riot
victims. One of them had said, in what I recall as a mocking fashion, in an
earlier hearing that the riot victims had grown older "settin' on their rights."
The City even filed a motion to sanction the plaintiffs' lawyers for filing a
frivolous complaint. The motion was, of course, denied by the federal court. For
Charles is never frivolous. He was, instead, on that day as on any other, the
model of integrity and poise. He argued eloquently for the Tulsa riot victims.
And, had the court been more sympathetic, it might have "heard" their plea for
their suit to go forward. For in denying the plaintiffs' tolling argument in a
motion to dismiss, the district court left the plaintiffs without another day in
court. The case has ended, but Charles has not given up; he is pursuing justice
through other means: Congressional hearings.

   In Charles, we have a man of immense humanity, who fights for justice on
behalf of those who cannot fight for themselves, such as the victims of the
Tulsa riot. In the 1920s, the plaintiffs had no shot at justice. They faced a
court system whose grand jury had blamed blacks with exaggerated notions of
social equality for inciting the rioting. Then the Ku Klux Klan took over the
Tulsa courts and further ensured that Tulsa would not have to answer for the
riot. For those victims, whose property was destroyed and who were told for so
long that they had no right to relief, and who were taught that if they asserted
whatever rights they had, they might be attacked, the era of Jim Crow continues
yet.

   Charles's fight for reparations has not been confined to the Tulsa riot. He
brought the Tulsa litigation team together with Alderman Dorothy Tillman of the
Chicago City Council, whose ordinance requires companies that do business with
Chicago to disclose their connections to slavery. Once again, Charles used his
personality, his charisma, his connections, and most importantly his talent. And
when I was involved in a public and controversial movement for an apology from
the University of Alabama for the faculty's involvement in slavery in the years
before the  [*148]  Civil War, Charles was there with encouraging and insightful
words. His support meant much to me then, as it does now. But it is not just in
litigation and activism that Charles has been supportive. He also taught me much
about scholarship and has been remarkably generous with his time in commenting
on my academic work.

   Charles has been at Harvard for twenty years and at the business of doing
justice for much longer than that. I have no doubt that he will continue to
pursue justice for a great deal longer, for there is no one else who shares his
humanity, his talents, his dedication, and his influence. No one else can occupy
his place, to be eyes to the blind, legs to the lame, and father to the poor.
With Professor Ogletree, we are in the presence of a person who will be thought
of the way we now think of Charles Hamilton Houston, Roscoe Dunjee, and Thurgood
Marshall.

   When we celebrate the next twenty years of Charles's tenure at Harvard, I
hope and expect that we will have much more to celebrate, in terms of improving
the lives of everyone. For that is what Charles works for; that is his legacy.
And as long as there are people to represent, young people to teach, and
scholarship to be written, we will need you, Charles.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous OffensesRiot, Rout &
Unlawful AssemblyGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  22 HARV. C.R.-C.L. L. REV. 323.


                             689 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday

Reading the Riots: reflections on interviewing police officers

BYLINE: Suzanne Hydeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1528 words

ABSTRACT

Amid the scripted answers and silences, officers of all ranks opened up to offer
graphic accounts of policing the riots

FULL TEXT

I remember my first interview with a member of the Met's Territorial Support
Group (TSG), the anti-riot police. The officer was intense, helpful and likable.
He went to great lengths to describe what it had been like to serve on London's
frontline during a night of rioting: the decisions taken, the tactics employed,
the scene as the night unfolded.

He said he wished he'd picked up a brick that night and lobbed it back at the
crowd. "I was annoyed at myself afterwards, because I realised what I could have
done, and could have justified, was picking up a brick myself and throwing it at
those particular individuals. I was annoyed that I hadn't, because I could have
been fully justified in doing so."

It has been a long journey since we started interviewing rioters for the first
phase of Reading the Riots last autumn. The second phase took a small core team
of researchers to London, Liverpool, Manchester and Birmingham to interview
police of all ranks about the English riots: 130 in-depth, face-to-face,
digitally recorded interviews lasting between 45 minutes and several hours -
just as with the rioters for phase one.

The timing was not the easiest. As we attempted to gain the trust of police in
general and the Met in particular, the Leveson inquiry was on TV news channels
in police stations, headquarters, training spaces and hotel rooms. Sometimes
officers were suspicious of us. A few said they felt coerced by their management
to talk. But amid the scripted answers and silences, many officers opened up to
offer frank and graphic accounts of policing the riots (with Liverpool police
proving particularly forthcoming).

In common with rioters we had spoken to, many officers used war analogies to
explain what they had seen. Comparisons were made to films such as Black Hawk
Down and 300. Some likened it to being in the blitz. Others said the chance to
put training into practice generated feelings of buzz and excitement - terms not
dissimilar to those used by rioters six months earlier.

Looking into the eyes of officers, anger and hurt were often visible. We heard
about cuts, bruises and sprains often discovered and dealt with only after the
event. A specialist public order officer said colleagues were going to work with
injuries "because they wanted to be here ... and you just get on with it". There
was shock at the extent of violence levelled at police, but some officers -
particularly senior ones - said they understood they were the public face of the
state, and that people were very angry with the state. "I'm not surprised at
people getting disaffected with society," said one senior commander.

These were interviews about extraordinary events, yet at times they revealed
familiar stories: middle-aged professionals grappling with social media and the
digital age; public sector workers worrying about their pensions; anger at cuts
in services, especially their own. Descriptions of lack of water and food
brought home the human practicalities of policing the riots on long, hot and
exhausting shifts. A female officer - part of a small team of mostly community
support officers with no riot kit or training, who successfully defended local
shop owners against looters - admitted to feeling fear before going on duty and
said: "My dad had to talk me into it."

A young PC described the difficulty for female officers to go to the toilet
while in one-piece riot suits. Another in her late 40s expressed pride at
keeping up with younger officers as she ran around in full kit for five hours,
gathering evidence on the frontline. A regional officer on mutual aid duty in
London described a YouTube film in which he can be heard telling other officers
where to run. His command - "To the alleyway!" - has been incorporated into the
play of his young children, who imitate their dad at the riots.

Some were very eloquent in their descriptions. An experienced TSG officer in
London compared the riot frontline to a moonscape, with rocks and boulders
around him. He could duck missiles thrown overhead, he said, but the most
dangerous were like a beamer bowled in cricket: "It would leave the hand and
come straight towards your face."

A minority of officers said they had since taken up counselling opportunities
offered through work. Most took part in some kind of debrief soon after their
shifts ended. Many said they hadn't spoken at length or in depth about their
experiences in the months since. They described back-to-back shifts over several
weeks before the resumption of normal duty, and said they had buried the
memories and emotions of the riot nights.

The Met insisted that press officers sat in on our interviews (the only force
that did). They recorded them, took notes, and often interrupted as I or one of
my colleagues made the point that we were most interested in hearing from the
officers who had been on the frontline. Our final batch of interviews included
some with Met officers who did not come through the press office, but instead
volunteered to be interviewed anonymously.

My first interviews were with senior officers involved in putting together
Operation Withern, the name given by the Met to its tactical response to the
riots. They did their best to explain the command structures, tactics, units and
divisions associated with policing the riots, but although this provided very
useful context, we were also interested in the attitudes and decision-making of
those who had to deal first-hand with the rioters.

Then, a breakthrough: a voice from the frontline, offered by a young PC.
Courteous and thoughtful, he took me through his recollections of nearly being
lost to the crowd in Tottenham. I had never before heard events described in
such detail from a police point of view. He was respectful in recalling the
death of Mark Duggan and the anger and protests it sparked. He said he could
understand if people went out to loot for food and nappies, but could not
compute the scale of looting for white goods, and the damage caused by people on
their own doorsteps to their own communities.

Like some rioters I spoke to, he painted a vivid picture of the noise and chaos
in the streets, recalling the chanting, helicopters and sirens. Unlike the
rioters, his strongest memory was the repetitive sound of the emergency assist
button on police radios, meaning an officer was in trouble: "It was one after
the other ... things were so extreme, it's hard to get your head round."

Many expressed relief that interviews were confidential and, Met aside, that a
representative of their employer wasn't present - making it easier when they
wanted to moan about their workplace, whether over perceived poor strategies or
inadequacies of kit. Officers could also admit to emotions such as rage or fear
without worrying about possible reprisals.

One theme we heard across all forces was the belief that the public had
misunderstood or been misled about police tactics. An officer who had
effectively worked a 22-hour shift in Manchester and Salford described feeling
cold with horror when he saw clips on TV of officers appearing to stand around.
"It wasn't reported correctly. Hand on heart, we never stood still for a
minute," he said.

Officers stressed that police had undertaken dispersal tactics that mirrored
their training and public disorder planning. Not conducting arrests at the time
of riot events was deliberate, they said, not a matter of standing back and
doing nothing. Some, however, expressed frustration at what they saw as
indecisive tactics by their senior command, as well as a general lack of police
numbers and of riot-trained backup officers.

Interviewing police on location revealed some interesting details of place.
Waiting to speak to officers from the tactical aid unit in Manchester, we spent
a few days camping out in the staff canteen, which put a face to some of those
behind the Nato helmets. Walking around a mockup of a street in Northern Ireland
where they conduct disorder training, we wondered how policing the riots had
compared to other episodes of unrest.

Most police officers outside London said the riots in their areas had been
copycat incidents. Rioters were dismissed as "scum" by some and "just criminals"
by others, but a few officers asked about the first phase of Reading the Riots -
particularly at the end of interviews, after tapes had been turned off - and
said they would be interested to meet and talk with those who were so violent
towards them, to understand where that came from.

Many of the police interviewees mentioned austerity, particularly youth
unemployment, and linked this to the high likelihood of further riots. Others
reported that community-police relationships had improved in recent years. I
believe we have learned much in phase two about the policing of the riots and
police perceptions in general, but some key questions remain unanswered - such
as the gap between the perspectives of the police and those rioters we
interviewed in phase one, who spoke so passionately about stop-and-search and
deaths in police custody.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             690 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

MHA to beef up police anti-riot force;
Its plans also include placing more cameras and officers in hot spots

BYLINE: Nur Asyiqin Mohamad Salleh

SECTION: TOP OF THE NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


ALL eight recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry (COI) into the Little
India riot to minimise the likelihood of similar incidents in the future have
been accepted by the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean told
Parliament yesterday.

Certain measures such as beefing up police presence in the popular ethnic
enclave and a faster way of activating anti-riot troops in a large public order
incident, are already in place, he added.

Other recommendations to strengthen the Home Team and improve the management of
congregation areas, are being studied and will soon be implemented.

DPM Teo, who is also Home Affairs Minister, was setting out the ministry's
response to the COI report in detail for the first time since it was released
last week.

He said the inquiry's analysis of the riot will be useful for the police as the
force reviews its doctrines and procedures for public order incidents. The
findings would also help hone the incident management skills of officers and
commanders who "did the best they could in the circumstances they faced, with
the information they had" on Dec 8, he added.

"Although there was destruction and damage to emergency vehicles, the riot was
fully brought under control within two hours of the initial accident, contained
within the immediate location, without loss of life or serious injury, and
without the use of lethal force including firearms," said DPM Teo. "The area was
reopened to people and traffic by early next morning."

The COI's recommendations, he added, address weaknesses and areas his ministry
has "to improve on, provide validation of several of our ongoing plans which
address the COI's concerns, sharpen our focus on what the priorities should be,
and provide impetus for us to do more in certain areas and to implement them
sooner".

A key plank of the MHA's plans in the wake of the most serious public order
incident here in 40 years, is to add 300 more officers to the police anti-riot
force. This would double the strength of units in the Special Operations
Command. Others include installing more closed-circuit television cameras and
adding boots on the ground in hot spots like Little India. "A riot on the
streets of Singapore is unacceptable We have to take preventive action to
minimise the likelihood of such a riot occurring, and improve our capability to
deal effectively with a riot if one does occur," said DPM Teo. "Anyone who takes
part in a riot must know that he will be dealt with firmly in accordance with
our laws."

Moulmein-Kallang GRC MP Denise Phua, who oversees part of Little India, was one
of several MPs who commended the Home Team in Parliament yesterday.

"I just want to officially thank and salute the Home Team for its contribution,
including the ground commander from Tanglin (Police Division) who I believe has
done what he could in the heat of action and without the benefit of hindsight."

asyiqins@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             691 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Riot explodes at new Tesco protest

BYLINE: Steve Bird

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 583 words


Police fought running battles with more than 400 masked protesters in Bristol
yesterday after a peaceful demonstration against a Tesco store turned into
another riot.

A mob armed with bricks, concrete blocks, roof tiles and bottles clashed with
officers outside the supermarket, which has been closed since it was attacked
last week. Baton charges and horses were used to try to contain the crowds
during a four-hour siege in the early hours. Riot vans were attacked, fires were
lit, makeshift barricades set up and graffiti were daubed on buildings
throughout the area. The destruction was so widespread that witnesses likened
the scene to a war zone.

Several officers were taken to hospital with head, neck, back and leg injuries
after being hit by missiles. Fifteen people were arrested.

Police later raided the Telepathic Heights squat opposite the Tesco shop, in the
belief that it was the headquarters of those responsible for the rioting. The
squat was also raided shortly before last week's riot, amid fears that some
occupants were planning to petrol-bomb the Tesco shop, a new branch that had
been open for six days.

Avon & Somerset Police, which drafted in extra officers from Wales, again had to
defend its actions after claims that it had been heavyhanded and provoked an
angry backlash.

Demonstrators had gathered peacefully in Cheltenham Road to protest outside
Tesco at 9pm on Thursday. About 12.30am, police in riot gear moved in to quell
the dancing and music as some protesters covered their faces with black scarves.
As the atmosphere became more tense, police made a charge with batons and horses
down the busy road, still filled with revellers drinking before the Bank
Holiday.

As the masked protesters showered officers with stones, bottles and tiles they
shouted: "Whose streets? Our streets!" They also attacked a riot van and several
bystanders were hit by flying glass.

Milo Sweet, 35, an amateur photographer who witnessed the riot, said: "Police
came charging down the road with their batons. That's when most of the crowd got
angry and the atmosphere changed. They had stopped wearing their round hats, put
on their riot gear and just charged. I got hit by a riot van and a police horse.

"The police kept telling us to move.

But they were trying to move us to a place where bottles were raining down. They
didn't seem organised at all."

Running battles broke out across Stokes Croft, spilling on to neighbouring
streets. Riot officers set up checkpoints to hem in demonstrators as a police
helicopter filmed overhead.

They also stationed riot vans close to the city centre amid fears that the
multimillion-pound Cabot Circus shopping centre would become a target.

John Arkey, 45, said: "There were small groups of mainly youths, with scarves
over their faces, battling with police. They ripped concrete from walls and
stones from the floor and threw it at the police. There was glass flying
everywhere. When the police charged they were very aggressive. That made the
situation even more scary. It was like a war zone."

Police eventually regained control of the streets just before 4am. Assistant
Chief Constable Rod Hansen said: "A number of people attended this event to
incite violence and cause criminal damage. We will not tolerate this behaviour
in our communities."

A spokeswoman for Tesco said that the store was not the sole target for the
demonstrators and many people in the area were keen for it to reopen.

'They ripped concrete from the walls and threw it at the police'

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The demonstration turned violent after midnight. Police made a baton
charge and several officers were injured by missiles
MICHAEL LLOYD / BRISTOL NEWS / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             692 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              June 29, 2014 Sunday

Committee report set to address 3 key issues;
Role of alcohol, police resources and social factors expected to be examined

BYLINE: Walter Sim

SECTION: NEWS; Home; INQUIRY INTO LITTLE INDIA RIOT

LENGTH: 1150 words


The Committee of Inquiry (COI) into the Little India riot last Dec 8 is set to
release its findings and recommendations tomorrow.

This, after the four-man panel, led by former Supreme Court judge G. Pannir
Selvam, heard evidence from 93 witnesses over the course of 24 days of public
hearings, which ended on March 26.

The report will also take in evidence uncovered by a team from the Central
Narcotics Bureau (CNB), which was tasked with conducting an independent
investigation for the COI.

The team, led by CNB director of investigations Adam Fashe Huddin, conducted 324
interviews, reviewed hours of video footage and made 11 site visits.

The committee's report was originally due to be submitted to Deputy Prime
Minister and Home Affairs Minister Teo Chee Hean on June 13.

But DPM Teo granted an extension for the COI to go through testimonies from
interviews on June 3 with three Indian nationals convicted for their roles in
the riot.

The Sunday Times looks at three key questions raised over the course of the
inquiry, which the committee's report is expected to address, among other
things.

Q: Was alcohol a leading cause of the violence'

Mr Adam told the COI that alcohol was "the main contributory factor" behind the
riot.

"Alcohol bottles were literally raining at police officers," he said.

Officers at the scene also testified that they could smell alcohol on the breath
of many people within the mob that night.

Some of those who have been convicted for their roles in the riot cited alcohol
as a reason they had behaved out of character, during mitigation.

Disamenity issues arising from public intoxication is not a new grouse of
residents in Little India.

Many who live and work in the ethnic enclave have complained of drunk foreign
workers urinating, vomiting or falling asleep at the void decks of the Housing
Board flats or along five-foot-ways.

There were 331 liquor licences in Little India at the time of the riot and
before curbs on the sale and public consumption of alcohol were imposed after
Dec 8.

The figure has since dropped to 321, according to the latest police figures as
of June 16.

Little India Shopkeepers and Heritage Association chairman Rajakumar Chandra
said that liquor businesses have suffered since the riot.

He told The Sunday Times that the bulk of their revenue used to come from
foreign workers who bought alcohol to drink in the fields.

He said: "Now, even with the crowds coming back, they cannot drink in public
like before."

During the COI, Mr Adam cited revenue losses of liquor stores to show how much
drinking there was. One, he noted, was losing as much as $25,000 every Sunday.

Several indoor eateries - where drinking is permitted - have also been affected
because of slower crowd turnover.

Mr Rajakumar said: "When people sit down with a bottle of beer, they won't get
up for a couple of hours."

As of June 16, 149 people have been issued police advisories, under the Public
Order (Additional Temporary Measures) Act, for drinking outside permitted hours.

Two outlets which allegedly violated liquor licensing conditions are being
investigated.

The liquor curbs "have been very welcomed by residents", Moulmein-Kallang GRC MP
Denise Phua told The Sunday Times. She termed the Dec 8 riot a "rude wake-up
call".

"It is due to the Home Affairs Ministry's decisive measures that they have
eventually recovered from the shock and, in fact, feel much safer and empathised
with than before," she said.

"Residents living just outside the special zones are seeing spillovers of
workers coming over to their side and are requesting that these few zones be
similarly covered as well."

Q: Did the police have enough resources to respond to the riot'

Police Commissioner Ng Joo Hee has stressed that many frontline police officers
had neither the right equipment nor the training to deal with a riot.

"I think it will be irresponsible for us to ask them to do so," he told the COI
when asked why frontline officers had not acted early enough to quell the
violence.

Mr Ng also acknowledged the "unacceptably long" time taken to give the anti-riot
squad the green light to respond to the incident on Dec 8, and the "totally
screwed up" communications due to jammed airwaves.

"I would readily admit our failings of that night," said Mr Ng then. "Our
performance in Little India has not been perfect, but I contend it is far from
inadequate."

In response, the police have made key changes to protocol. Divisional commanders
can now give the go-ahead to activate the anti-riot squad, rather than requiring
permission from headquarters.

A new command and control system will be installed by the end of this year,
which will resolve communication issues encountered in the riot. At the Police
Workplan Seminar last month, it was also announced that patrol cars will be
equipped with special cameras to record what happens when police officers attend
to cases.

These will supplement plans to equip officers with body-worn cameras, which
resemble pagers and are clipped to their chests.

Meanwhile, more than 100,000 cameras with playback capability are being
installed islandwide, to give the police more eyes on the ground.

More, however, needs to be done on the manpower front, Mr Ng said. He hopes to
recruit 1,000 more officers to beef up police anti-riot capability, create an
additional tactical troop specialised in tackling riots, and increase patrols.

Since the riot and despite limited manpower, 20 to 35 more officers have been
deployed to Little India on weekends at the cost of cancelled leave days and
sacrificed training hours, the COI heard.

Q: Were there any other underlying social issues behind the riot'

The COI investigation team did not find any "deep-seated unhappiness" among
foreign workers in Singapore that might have caused them to "take the
opportunity... to vent their anger", said Mr Adam.

Neither was there any evidence of widespread abuse, nor complaints over wages
and poor living conditions.

Migrant Workers' Centre executive director Bernard Menon told the COI that there
was no "latent frustration or tension". He added: "The general majority of
workers here are peaceful, genuine and hard-working."

The Government has announced that it will build four more recreation centres for
foreign workers by the end of next year as an alternative to Little India.

These will have amenities such as basketball and volleyball courts, soccer and
cricket fields, fitness corners, foodcourts, supermarkets and Internet cafes.
There are already four such centres - in Jurong, Penjuru Road, Woodlands and
Kaki Bukit.

A regulatory framework - announced during the Budget debate - is also being
planned for large dormitories for foreign workers.

Ms Phua said: "Like us, foreign workers have physical, financial and
socio-emotional needs to socialise during their days off. Post-riot measures to
address their needs must not stop."

waltsim@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             693 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           October 19, 2006 Thursday
                                 State Edition

No control and poor equipment - Police race riot report

BYLINE: SIMON BENSON, KARA LAWRENCE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 386  words


AN INTERNAL police report into the Cronulla race riots has criticised senior
police management and the lack of equipment given to front-line officers to deal
with rioters.

It is the second time the poor supply of equipment has been highlighted in a
riot report, with a similar criticism made of the response to the Redfern riots
almost two years before.

Senior police sources have also told The Daily Telegraph a ''breakdown'' in
communication in intercepting a convoy of Middle Eastern youths on the night
after the December 11, 2005, riots helped fuel the violent revenge attacks.

Police Minister Carl Scully -- who has been accused of sitting on the report --
last night confirmed a draft had been handed to him and that it put senior
police and equipment issues ''under the microscope''.

He would not comment further until he had read the entire report.

However, it has now also been revealed police botched the internal review into
the riots.

The much anticipated report into the riots, which was due in August, has been
rejected by Police Commissioner Ken Moroney because senior operational police
had not been interviewed.

Mr Moroney -- who has been on a study tour for three weeks -- sent it back to
former assistant commissioner in charge of the review Norm Hazzard before
heading overseas.

''I am not satisfied that the report process has been finalised,'' Mr Moroney
said in a statement last night.

''I've asked the report's author to conduct further consultation with senior
commanders.''

Mr Scully said he would discuss the report with Mr Moroney on his return on
Monday. The report would then be officially released.

The Daily Telegraph understands the report is not likely to be as critical of
the police response to the Cronulla riots as the response to the Redfern or
Macquarie Fields riots.

However, the possibility that more police could have been put on the ground
earlier on the day of the riots is likely to be raised.

The failure of police to shut down bottle shops in the area while
alcohol-fuelled violence got out of control is likely to come under criticism.

Also to come in for some criticism is the police command's handling of the
following night's retribution attacks in Maroubra and Brighton-le-Sands.

Claims of political interference and confusion over who was in command is also
likely to be raised.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             694 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

               Copyright (c) 1995 New York University Law Review
                         New York University Law Review

                                 October, 1995

                         New York University Law Review

                              70 N.Y.U.L. Rev. 965

LENGTH: 12104 words

ESSAY: LOS OLVIDADOS: * ON THE MAKING OF INVISIBLE PEOPLE





   * "Forgotten Ones."

NAME: Juan F. Perea **

BIO:



   ** Professor of Law, University of Florida. Visiting Professor, Boston
College Law School. B.A., 1977, University of Maryland; J.D., 1986, Boston
College Law School. This Essay was delivered as the 1994-95 James A. Thomas
Lecture at the Yale Law School on February 28, 1995, and it also won the first
annual Thurgood Marshall Memorial Paper Prize awarded by the Southwest/Southeast
People of Color Legal Scholarship Conference in May 1995. I would like to thank
all who have heard, read, and commented upon this Essay. I have truly
appreciated your attention and feedback. I would like to thank my friends and
colleagues Joe Feagin, Hernan and Maria Vera, Kenneth Nunn, Michael Seigel, and
Sharon Dabrow for helpful comments and discussions about early versions of the
essay. My very special thanks to my spouse, Dr. Jan Snyder Perea, for her
constant support, attention, patience, constructive criticism, and heroic
indulgence of my overzealous commitment to the issues I discuss herein. Finally,
thanks to Mr. Fernando Bobadilla and Ms. Isabelle Lopez for excellent research
assistance.

 LEXISNEXIS SUMMARY:
 ... The Media Presentation of the Los Angeles Riots and the Creation of Latino
Invisibility The media presentation of the Los Angeles riots in the spring of
1992 illustrates the creation of Latino invisibility by omission.  ... How,
then, would the white nation deal with its Latinos - a hybrid people, a tiny
portion part-Spanish, mostly Indian, many part-African, speaking Spanish, and
embodying the very "blot and mixture" the Framers had thought so necessary to
expel?  ... Benjamin Franklin's dislike of the German language was palpable.
... A casual review of most employment discrimination casebooks will reveal many
cases and many pages discussing issues of race and sex discrimination but very
few pages discussing discrimination because of national origin or ethnicity.
... By making ancestry the significant concept in claiming statutory protection,
the statute excludes many ethnic traits of United States citizens, including
different languages, accents, and names, from the legal and cultural conception
of United States identity.

TEXT:
 [*965]

    In his recent book, Latinos, Earl Shorris poignantly describes Bienvenida
Petion, a Jewish Latino immigrant, who clings to her language and culture "as if
they were life itself."  n1 When Bienvenida dies, it is "not of illness, but of
English."  n2 Bienvenida dies of English when she is confined to a nursing home
where no one speaks Spanish, an environment in which she cannot communicate and
in which no one cares about her language and culture.

    "Death by English" is a death of the spirit, the slow death that occurs when
one's own identity is replaced, reconfigured, overwhelmed, or rejected by a more
powerful, dominant identity not one's own. For Latinos, illness by English of
varying degree, even death by English, is a common affliction, without known
cure. It may be identified, however, by some of its symptoms.

    The mere sound of Spanish offends and frightens many English-only speakers,
who sense in the language a loss of control over what they regard as "their"
country. Spanish also frightens many Latinos, for it proclaims their identity as
Latinos, for all to hear. The Latino's fear is rational. Spanish may subject
Latinos to the harsh price of difference in the United States: the loss of a
job, instant scapegoating,  [*966]  and identification as an outsider.  n3
Giving in to this fear and denying one's own identity as a Latino is, perhaps,
to begin to die of English.

    Latino invisibility is, I believe, the principal cause of illness by
English. When I write of Latino invisibility, I mean a relative lack of positive
public identity and legitimacy. I believe invisibility in this sense is created
in several ways. Sometimes we are rendered invisible through the absence of
public recognition and portrayal. Sometimes we are silenced through prohibitions
on the use of Spanish. Sometimes we are rendered politically invisible, or
nearly invisible, through the attribution of foreignness, what I shall call
"symbolic deportation." I do not claim that Latinos are the only American people
rendered invisible in America. In many respects the processes of invisibility
have more general application. In this Essay, however, I shall discuss only the
invisibility I know best.

    So how do American culture, history, and laws make "invisible people" out of
American Latinos, who arrived before the English?  n4 To answer this question,
this Essay discusses the creation of Latino invisibility in three important,
interdependent contexts. Part I discusses the media presentation of the 1992 Los
Angeles riots and the absence of portrayal of the large Latino role in these
riots. It also discusses the absence of Latinos from popular and scholarly
analytical categories, reflected metaphorically in the organization of
bookstores. Part II discusses the historical conception of the United States:
the Framers' plan that America be a white nation, without racial mixture. This
historical conception precludes the full recognition of Latinos, most of whom
are racially mixed, as equal members of our community, and so tends to impose
invisibility upon Latinos. Finally, Part III analyzes the role of the statutory
"national origin" concept in attributing a false and stigmatizing foreignness
upon Latino people.  [*967]

   I


   Latino Invisibility in Popular Culture


   A. The Media Presentation of the Los Angeles Riots
and the Creation of Latino Invisibility


   The media presentation of the Los Angeles riots in the spring of 1992
illustrates the creation of Latino invisibility by omission. The Los Angeles
riots, precipitated by the acquittal of four white police officers who had
severely beaten Rodney King, have been characterized as the worst urban riots of
this century.  n5 Over fifty persons died, and over 2400 persons were injured,
during the riots.  n6 Estimates of the value of property destroyed or damaged
during the riots run in the billions of dollars.  n7

    I identify three images that emerged from the riots as perhaps the most
compelling. First is the horrifying image of organized police brutality and
violence inflicted upon Rodney King, fortuitously videotaped and then widely
broadcast nationally. The videotaped images resonate with centuries of similar
violence suffered by African Americans at the hands of armed whites intent on
brutalizing them.  n8 Without the coincidental videotape as witness and
testimony to King's beating, I am confident that he would have been an invisible
victim of police violence.

    The second image is the horrible violence inflicted upon Reginald Denny,
also captured and widely broadcast on videotape. Many commentators and
journalists presented this image as a kind of symbolic counterpoint to the
violence against Rodney King, as though both events were comparable.  n9
Reginald Denny's beating created possibilities for certain artificial and
misleading symmetries: Even if the Los Angeles police were out of control, so
were the black rioters; a black victim is matched by a paired white victim.  n10
[*968]

    A third image from the Los Angeles riots is the image of armed Korean or
Korean American merchants protecting their stores with firearms. The media
covered the riots as if they were the outcome of simmering conflict between
Korean Americans and African Americans.  n11 The conflict was cast as an ethnic
and racial conflict between two minority groups - one labelled good, one
labelled bad. Koreans were the good ethnics, "model minority members" -
hardworking, quiet, law-abiding property owners striving to climb the ladder of
the American dream.  n12 Blacks were the bad - violent, criminal, and out of
control.  n13 The good minority versus bad minority oppositional pairing
disguises our traditional racial hierarchy and racism by displacing it onto two
oppressed minority groups.  n14

    Now a fourth image: groups of Latino-looking people rushing from a
storefront, arms laden with stolen merchandise. While images like this were
broadcast frequently, they were treated as incidental in public discussion of
the Los Angeles riots. Yet this image contains a remarkably important part of
the story of the riots. According to statistics reported by David
Hayes-Bautista, Werner Schink, and Maria Hayes-Bautista, most of the early
victims of crowd violence were Latinos; one-third of the dead were Latino;
between twenty and forty percent of the businesses damaged were Latino owned;
and one-half of those arrested were Latino.  n15 Particularly by the beginning
of the second day, the Los Angeles riots were heavily Latino riots, not
black-white riots.

    The story of the Los Angeles riots is, therefore, largely a Latino story
too. This makes perfect sense because half of the population of South Central
Los Angeles was Latino, mostly Mexican American  [*969]  with more recent
Mexican and other Central American immigrants.  n16 Yet neither the stories of
Latino victimization nor Latino criminality entered public debate about the
riots at all.  n17 Despite widespread Latino anger at conditions in South
Central Los Angeles similar to those faced by African Americans, the needs of
the Latino community in South Central  n18 were neither seen nor discussed
publicly at all. It is a story that continues to be difficult to find and tell.
n19

    It remains remarkable that most of the journalistic and scholarly commentary
on the Los Angeles riots has, like the visual media, explained the Los Angeles
riots as a black and white and Korean event, entirely ignoring the major role
played and suffered by Latinos during the riots.  n20 Only one published article
n21 focuses exclusively on describing and explaining the role of Latinos during
the Los Angeles riots.  n22 Very few journalists have written about the
multiracial and multicultural complexity of the riots.  n23 A few scholars have
made passing reference to the Latino role in the riots, with no significant
explanation or commentary.  n24 An entire anthology on the Rodney King episode
and its aftermath has been published, with apparently no articles authored or
coauthored by any Latino writers and no articles  [*970]  about the role of
Latinos during the riots.  n25 The anthology, predictably, contains excellent
articles by distinguished African American, white, and Asian American scholars
who provided their points of view regarding their respective communities, but it
omits any significant mention of Latinos.

    In these ways, then, Latinos were rendered invisible through the lack of
portrayal in the visual and print media. The dominant images that emerged from
the Los Angeles riots suggest the persistence of a cultural lens which focuses
primarily, if not exclusively, on images of racial conflict between blacks and
whites.  n26 It is a severely distorted lens, however, for it ignores roughly
half the picture and fully half of the story.

   B. Searching for Latinos in the Bookstores


   When I travel, I spend a lot of time in bookstores searching for books on
Latino life and history. It is hard to find such books. Not that they do not
exist, as I own many dozens, perhaps hundreds, of books about Latinos. Yet I
have never found a bookstore with a section on Latinos. There must be at least
one, somewhere, but I have not found it yet.  n27 Since bookstores never have a
section of books on Latinos, I have to search through many corridors, many
categories, to find what I want. A typical search includes perusing sections on
Native American Studies, Latin American Studies (which usually refers to South
or Central, not North, American Studies), Anthropology, Sociology, and
occasionally United States History or "Americana," the catch-all section. A few
really good bookstores have an "ethnic studies" section, which is usually a
treasure trove of books about Latinos, Latino history, and the histories of
other ethnic groups.

    The absence of a Latino or Hispanic studies section in most bookstores
demonstrates a point about racial and ethnic categories in popular  [*971]  and
scholarly culture. The need to roam across various corridors and subjects to
find books on Latinos is caused by the absence of recognition that Latinos
constitute an important subject about which many books have been written. The
absence of a section on Latino studies and the fairly random sprinkling of books
on Latinos throughout sections of varying relevance to Latinos is a metaphor for
our denied identity, our absence from the popular imagination. To place books on
United States Latinos in the Latin American studies section is to place us
outside the borders of the United States. It is symbolic deportation to the
nations of Latin America together with symbolic exclusion from identity within
the United States.

    The difficulty of finding books on Latinos contrasts sharply with the
relative ease of finding books on African Americans and their history. Most
bookstores have an African American or Black Studies section, the result of
African American demands for books on their history and literature.  n28 The
fact that African American history and writing are so much easier to locate than
Latino history demonstrates a much greater degree of public acknowledgement and
legitimacy for black identity and the lack thereof with respect to Latino
identity.

    Latinos must voice similar demands for the books on our history and culture,
so we are not such a well-kept secret.  n29 To be scattered widely among
disparate disciplines is to dissipate Latino identity without category. It is a
metaphor for the popular and scholarly denial of our identity. It is another
form of Latino invisibility.  [*972]

   II


   History and the Creation of Latino Invisibility


   A. The Framers' Plan for a White America


   The story of how historians have generated Latino invisibility begins with
the Framers' plan for America. According to its English conquerors, America was
always meant to belong to white Englishmen. In 1788, John Jay, writing in the
Federalist Number 2, stated: "Providence has been pleased to give this one
connected country to one united people - a people descended from the same
ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to
the same principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs
...."  n30 Although Jay's statement was wrong - early American society was
remarkably diverse - his wish for America, that it be a homogeneous, white,
English-speaking Anglo society, was widely shared by the Framers of the
Constitution and other prominent leaders.

    Early on, Benjamin Franklin expressed his distaste for the Germans in
Pennsylvania,  n31 who, by 1790, accounted for over one-third of the citizens of
Pennsylvania.  n32 Franklin, in 1753, wrote to Peter Collinson and described the
substantial extent to which the German language and culture influenced American
colonial culture in Pennsylvania:

They have one German News-paper, and one half German. Advertisments intended to
be general are now printed in Dutch [German] and English; the Signs in our
Streets [Philadelphia] have inscriptions in both languages, and in some places
only German: They begin of late to make all their Bonds and other legal Writings
in their own Language, which (though I think it ought not to be) are allowed
good in our Courts, where the German Business so encreases that there is
continual need of Interpreters; and I suppose in a few years they will be also
necessary in the Assembly, to tell one half of our Legislators what the other
half say; In short unless the stream of their importation could be turned from
this to other Colonies, as you very judiciously propose, they will soon so out
number us, that all the advantages we have will not [in my Opinion] be able to
preserve  [*973]  our language, and even our Government will become precarious.
n33

The presence of German colonists and their different language, in Franklin's
eyes, threatened the English and their government.

    In his "Observations on the Increase of Mankind," written in 1751, Franklin
lamented the presence of Germans, other Europeans, and Africans who would render
impure or darken the "lovely White and Red" complexion of the English in
America.  n34 Regarding the Germans, Franklin wrote:

Why should the Palatine Boors be suffered to swarm into our Settlements and, by
herding together, establish their Language and Manners, to the Exclusion of
ours? Why should Pennsylvania, founded by the English, become a Colony of
Aliens, who will shortly be so numerous as to Germanize us instead of our
Anglifying them, and will never adopt our Language or Customs any more than they
can acquire our Complexion?  n35

   Interestingly, Franklin thought that the Germans and other Europeans had a
"swarthy complexion,"  n36 different and inferior to the "lovely White and Red"
n37 of the English. Franklin attributed racial differences in skin color to the
Germans, differences that would probably not be perceptible today, because of
his hostility toward their ethnic differences from the English. In this excerpt
we can see one of the functions of assigning racial difference: the creation of
racial difference facilitates the assignment of an inferior position to a
disliked other.

    With respect to Africans, Franklin pronounced that "All Africa is black or
tawny."  n38 He asked, rhetorically: "Why increase the Sons of Africa, by
planting them in America, where we have so fair an Opportunity, by excluding all
Blacks and Tawneys, of increasing the lovely White and Red?"  n39 Franklin's
design for a white America called for  [*974]  excluding others of a different
complexion, so that America might not darken its people.  n40

    Like Franklin and Jay, Thomas Jefferson was also preoccupied with creating a
homogeneous and white nation. In 1801, Jefferson wrote that



   it is impossible not to look forward to distant times, when our rapid
multiplication will expand itself ... & cover the whole northern, if not the
southern continent, with a people speaking the same language, governed in
similar forms, & by similar laws; nor can we contemplate with satisfaction
either blot or mixture on that surface.  n41

   The "blot or mixture" that concerned him was the presence of Africans in the
United States. Jefferson worried that blacks were reproducing at least as fast
as whites. He worried that the black "blot" would lead to "mixture" and the
"staining" of "the fine mixture of red and white."  n42 Jefferson's solution was
expulsion: the African was "to be removed beyond the reach of mixture," perhaps
to Santo Domingo or perhaps back to Africa as a last resort.  n43 For Jefferson,
the lovely white, homogeneous republic must not allow its people to be stained
and to become a nation of mulattoes.

    Benjamin Rush, signer of the Declaration of Independence and leading
educator and physician of his time, saw blackness as a disease, like leprosy,
which was curable with proper treatment.  n44 Rush wanted to cure blacks of
their blackness. While they recovered from their blackness, Rush proposed
isolating and segregating blacks in internal domestic colonies, black farming
communities, rather than expelling them from the country.  n45

    Whites were no more willing to include Native Americans in their society
than they were to include Africans. White hatred of the Indian was perhaps best
personified by President Andrew Jackson. Jackson viewed Indians as impulsive and
lacking in discipline.  n46 He also feared Indian men as sexual threats to white
women: "Few incidents aroused his wrath as much as the Indian capture of white
[*975]  women."  n47 Jackson described Indians as "savage bloodhounds" and
"blood thirsty barbarians."  n48 He urged their extermination, and he encouraged
his troops to commit acts of great cruelty and brutality against Indians.  n49
As President, Jackson was most responsible for the removal of Indians from their
desirable lands in the eastern United States and their relocation west of the
Mississippi.  n50

    As different American leaders implemented their visions of a homogeneous
white nation, peoples of color were inconvenient obstacles to be managed by any
of several means: expulsion, isolation, removal, enslavement, even
extermination. How, then, would the white nation deal with its Latinos - a
hybrid people, a tiny portion part-Spanish, mostly Indian, many part-African,
speaking Spanish, and embodying the very "blot and mixture" the Framers had
thought so necessary to expel?  n51

   B. The Early Conflict Between White America and Latinos


   As historian David Weber has written:



   Despite the enduring myth that "Spaniards" settled the borderlands, it is
quite clear that the majority of the pioneers were Mexicans of mixed blood. In
New Spain, the three races of mankind, Caucasian, Mongol, and Negro, blended to
form an infinite variety of blood strains, and this blending continued as
Mexicans settled among aborigines [Indians] in the Southwest. Thus mestizaje, or
racial mixture, was so common that today the vast majority of all Mexicans are
of mixed blood.  n52

The first census of Los Angeles, taken in 1781, reveals that only two of
forty-six persons were identified as Spaniards; the rest were identified as
Indians, mestizos, mulattoes, and blacks.  n53

    The imperative of establishing and preserving a pure white government still
ran strong when Anglos first encountered Mexicans.  [*976]  Senator John
Calhoun, speaking on the Senate floor in 1848, opposed United States annexation
of Mexican lands on racial grounds:



   I know further, sir, that we have never dreamt of incorporating into our
Union any but the Caucasian race - the free white race. To incorporate Mexico,
would be the very first instance of the kind of incorporating an Indian race;
... I protest against such a union as that! Ours, sir, is the Government of a
white race.  n54

   Both before and after the conquest of Mexico in 1846, the ideological stage
had been set for the mutual dislike that Mexicans and white Americans had for
each other. As David Weber has written: "American visitors to the Mexican
frontier were nearly unanimous in commenting on the dark skin of Mexican
mestizos who, it was generally agreed, had inherited the worst qualities of
Spaniards and Indians to produce a "race' still more despicable than that of
either parent."  n55 Rufus B. Sage, newspaperman and Rocky Mountain trapper,
expressed the common view, describing residents of New Mexico in 1846:

   There are no people on the continent of America, whether civilized or
uncivilized, with one or two exceptions, more miserable in condition or
despicable in morals than the mongrel race inhabiting New Mexico...

    ...

    ... To manage them successfully, they must needs be held in continual
restraint, and kept in their place by force, if necessary, - else they will
become haughty and insolent.

    As servants, they are excellent, when properly trained, but are worse than
useless if left to themselves.  n56

Lest one think this kind of thinking is a thing of the distant past, consider
the views of historian Walter Prescott Webb, writing in 1935:



   The Mexican nation arises from the heterogeneous mixture of races that
compose it. The Indian blood - but not Plains Indian blood - predominates, but
in it is a mixture of European, largely Latin. The result is a conglomerate with
all gradations from pure Spanish to pure Indian. There are corresponding social
gradations with grandees at the top and peons at the bottom. The language is
Spanish,  [*977]  or Mexican, the religion Catholic, the temperament volatile
and mercurial.  n57

   Both writers appear obsessed with the racial "blot and mixture" that so
preoccupied white Americans, Framers, frontiersmen, and historians alike.
Interestingly, in Webb's writing, the historian imposes racial hierarchy
according to the relative amounts of "Spanish" (i.e., quasi-white) and Native
American ancestry exhibited by Mexicans.

    Today, an important part of the public image of the Latino is the Latino as
alien: an immigrant, a recent arrival, a foreigner not really belonging to, or
in, America. The irony and the proof of falsity in this public image are found
in history. The Spanish language was introduced into Mexico in 1519 when
explorers and conquerors from Spain arrived and claimed Mexico for the Spanish
crown.  n58 Over the next three centuries, Spanish-speaking Mexicans migrated
northward into the area that later became Arizona, California, New Mexico, and
Texas.  n59 The presence of the largest group of people we now call Latinos,
Mexican Americans, has been continuous in the Southwest since the sixteenth
century.  n60

    Of course, Mexicans formulated their own views of the Anglos that began
entering their territories in Texas, New Mexico, and California. Jose Maria
Sanchez, writing in 1828, described the living conditions of Anglos settled in
Villa de Austin, on the Texas frontier:



   Its population is nearly two hundred persons, of which only ten are Mexicans,
for the balance are all Americans from the North with an occasional European.
Two wretched little stores supply the inhabitants of the colony: one sells only
whiskey, rum, sugar, and coffee; the other, rice, flour, lard, and cheap cloth
... The Americans from the North, at least the greater part of those I have
seen, eat only salted meat, bread made by themselves out of corn meal, coffee,
and home-made cheese. To these the greater part of those who live in the village
add strong liquor, for they are in general, in my opinion, lazy people of
vicious character. Some of them cultivate their small farms by planting corn;
but this task they usually entrust to their negro slaves, whom they treat with
considerable harshness.  n61  [*978]

   Juan Seguin, former mayor of San Antonio, was forced to flee Texas because of
a huge influx of Anglo-Americans. In 1858, he described the painful irony of his
new powerlessness at the hands of the new Anglo rulers of San Antonio: "A victim
to the wickedness of a few men, whose imposture was favored by their origin, and
recent domination over the country; a foreigner in my native land; could I be
expected stoically to endure their outrages and insults?"  n62 Anglo-Americans
thus turned Latinos into foreigners in their own lands.

   C. White America and the English Language


   The Framers' white America also had to be a predominantly English-speaking
America. America's one people had to be connected by a single language - English
- in the words of John Jay and later echoed by Thomas Jefferson.  n63 Benjamin
Franklin's dislike of the German language was palpable.  n64 I will use two
examples to illustrate the perceived need for a white and English-speaking
America.

    In 1807, Jefferson proposed the resettlement, at government expense, of
thirty thousand presumably English-speaking Americans in Louisiana in order to
"make the majority American, [and] make it an American instead of a French
State."  n65 The first governor of Louisiana, William Claiborne, unsuccessfully
attempted to require that all the laws of Louisiana be published in English.
n66

    The saga of New Mexico's admission to statehood also illustrates the
perceived need for a white and English-speaking America. Despite repeated
attempts beginning in 1850, New Mexico did not became a state until 1912, when a
majority of its population was English-speaking for the first time.  n67
Statehood was withheld from New Mexico for over sixty years because of
Congress's unwillingness to grant  [*979]  statehood to a predominantly
Spanish-speaking territory populated by Mexican people.  n68

   D. Our Multilingual Heritage


   There was a tremendous disparity, of course, between the country the Framers
desired and the one they came to possess. The country was composed of many
groups, of different hues and speaking different languages.  n69 Several
examples of governmental recognition of American multilingualism illustrate my
point. The Continental Congress,  [*980]  hoping to communicate with and win the
allegiance of American peoples whose language was different from English,
published many significant documents in German and French.  n70 After the
Revolutionary War, the Articles of Confederation were published in official
English, German, and French editions.  n71

    Particularly during much of the nineteenth century, several states had rich
legal histories of official bilingualism, by which I mean statutory or
constitutional recognition of languages other than English: Pennsylvania was
officially bilingual in German and English; California and New Mexico were
officially bilingual in Spanish and English; and Louisiana was officially
bilingual in French and English.  n72

    The implementation of official bilingualism in these several states shared
common features. All of the laws of those states were required to be published
in more than one language, a requirement implemented either by statute or under
the state constitution. California's constitution of 1849, for example, required
that: "All laws, decrees, regulations, and provisions ... shall be published in
English and Spanish."  n73 Other important documents, such as legislative
journals and executive orders, were also published in Spanish and English.  n74

    The implementation of official bilingualism in these states was often quite
extensive. In Pennsylvania, for example, the legislature authorized two state
printers: "one to do the English, and one to do the German printing of the
commonwealth."  n75 In addition, just as Benjamin Franklin had feared some one
hundred years earlier,  n76 the Pennsylvania legislature authorized a German
translator for each house of the General Assembly to translate official
documents.  n77 Pennsylvania, New Mexico, and Louisiana had state-sponsored
public  [*981]  education in two languages during this period.  n78 Indeed, one
of the earliest and most well-documented instances of bilingual education was
the founding of the German College, bilingual in German and English, in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania in 1787.  n79

    Although this state-sponsored bilingualism mostly died out during the
nineteenth century, New Mexico's official bilingualism was remarkably
long-lived. New Mexico was officially bilingual between 1846 and early 1953,
over one hundred years.  n80

    Most people are not aware of the existence and the extent of American
multilingualism and its official, state-sponsored character. I am not aware of
any United States history text that includes this material. Nor will you find it
in any legal history text. This raises a fundamental question that must be asked
of historians: Why have historians left all this material out of the telling of
history?

    Furthermore, the multicultural heritage of this country has, until very
recently, been largely ignored. The Mexican American heritage of this country
has also been largely ignored. Perhaps the Framers' vision of and wish for a
white and English-speaking America, together with the very similar imperatives
of the Americanization movement of the turn of this century, have turned
historians away from evidence that would conflict with that vision of America.
Perhaps the construction of a homogeneous white America has overridden the
recognition of a heterogenous, multicolored, and multilingual America, an
America demonstrably heterogeneous since its inception. In this way, historians
and their choices of which stories to tell, and which to omit, have contributed
mightily to the creation of Latino invisibility.


   III

The "National Origin" Concept and the Creation
of Latino Invisibility


   Historians have produced Latino invisibility by omission. Lawmakers have
produced it through the attribution of stigmatizing foreignness. This form of
invisibility also has its genesis in the Framers' vision of a pure, white
America.  [*982]

    This vision of America was implemented in our earliest naturalization
statutes. The first condition for naturalized citizenship under both the
Naturalization Laws of 1790 and 1795 was that an alien be a "free white person."
n81

    Much later, in 1924, Congress attempted to preserve the predominantly white
society by restricting immigration through national origin quotas for
immigrants.  n82 These quotas, defined by the countries of origin of prospective
immigrants, limited immigration so that the demographic composition of
immigrants matched the predominantly white, northern European composition of the
extant American population. Thus the statutory language of "national origin"
began in this century as a concept meant to preserve the existing racial
character of American society. It was a concept meant to exclude immigrants who
varied too much from white America.

    Today the statutory phrase "national origin" appears most prominently in
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination in
employment because of national origin.  n83 At first glance, the current
"national origin" concept appears to be meant to include and protect ethnically
different Americans.  n84 I believe, however, that true to its origins in the
immigration laws, today's "national origin" concept operates to exclude
ethnically different Americans in a way similar to the way in which the national
origin quotas excluded undesirable immigrants.

   A. Definitions


   First, I must define some important terms that I will be discussing. Of these
terms, "national origin" is most simply defined and most easily understood. It
means, simply, the nation of one's birth.  n85 National  [*983]  origin should
be distinguished from "ancestry," which may be defined as "family descent or
lineage."  n86 Ancestry, therefore, is a broader concept than national origin,
since it encompasses more than one ancestor and includes the multiple national
origins of one's ancestors. Intermarriage and relationship among persons of
differing ancestries yield ever more complex ancestries.

    "Ethnicity" is the most complex term to define because it includes a varying
mix of different traits. Under a broad definition, ethnicity refers to physical
and cultural characteristics that make a social group distinctive, either in
group members' eyes or in the view of outsiders.  n87 Thus ethnicity consists of
a set of ethnic traits that may include, but are not limited to, race, national
origin, ancestry, language, religion, shared history, traditions, values, and
symbols, all of which contribute to a sense of distinctiveness among members of
the group.  n88 These traits may also engender a perception of group
distinctiveness in persons who are not members of that group.

    It is the perception of difference, often based on ethnic traits, that
results in discrimination. Discrimination is more likely to occur against
persons because of the perceptible manifestations of ethnic distinction, ethnic
traits, than because of the often imperceptible fact of national origin.  n89 As
Professor Allport has written, "perceptible differences are of basic importance
in distinguishing between out-group  [*984]  and in-group members."  n90 It is
through perceptible markers such as language, surname, skin color, and physical
features, among other traits, that Latino identity becomes perceptible and
visible.  n91

   B. The Failure of Title VII To Prohibit Discrimination
Because of Latino Ethnicity


   The question then becomes: How well does the "national origin" language of
Title VII protect against discrimination because of perceptible aspects of
Latino ethnicity? I must answer this question "not very well."

    There is no meaningful legal protection against discrimination based on the
ethnicity of Latinos. This is a surprising statement, because the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) has issued extensive guidelines which
largely prohibit employment discrimination because of ethnic characteristics.
n92 The courts, however, including the Supreme Court, routinely ignore the
EEOC's expert agency guidelines, thus rendering them largely ineffectual.  n93
The guidelines, at present, offer a false promise of protection that is useless
in the courts.

    To begin to understand why this is the case, one must understand that, to
date, there has been no serious commitment to protect against discrimination
because of ethnicity or ethnic traits.  n94 Congress's principal purpose in
enacting Title VII was to prohibit employment discrimination because of race or
color. Despite its parallel status and  [*985]  equal longevity in Title VII,
the prohibition against national origin discrimination remains remarkably
undeveloped and ineffective. In a legislative history spanning literally
thousands of pages of the Congressional Record, consideration of the "national
origin" term was limited to a few unilluminating paragraphs of House debate.
n95 At the time, Congress gave no serious thought to the content of the national
origin term nor to its proper scope.

    Since that time, as well, there has been a remarkable scarcity of analysis
and commentary regarding the "national origin" term and whether it remains
adequate for the forms of discrimination common today. In the thirty years since
Title VII was enacted, there is only one Supreme Court decision interpreting the
"national origin" term, the 1973 decision in Espinoza v. Farah Manufacturing Co.
n96 The Court has denied certiorari in national origin cases many times.  n97
This contrasts sharply with myriad Court decisions developing the law of race
and sex discrimination.

    Furthermore, law reviews and casebooks, like the Court, have been remarkably
silent about problems of national origin discrimination. A casual review of most
employment discrimination casebooks will reveal many cases and many pages
discussing issues of race and sex discrimination but very few pages discussing
discrimination because of national origin or ethnicity. Together, legislators,
the courts, commentators, and casebooks have created Latino, and more generally,
ethnic invisibility by silence.


   C. The Judicial Creation and Enforcement
of a Normative American Identity  n98


   Because Congress never considered the question of national origin or
ethnicity seriously, leaving a silent legislative history, judges are left with
enormous discretion to decide which, if any, aspects of ethnic identity will be
protected by the prohibition of discrimination due to national origin. This
discretion manifests itself in the threshold judicial decisions regarding
whether a trait may function at all as a proxy  [*986]  for national origin,
and, if so, whether a trait is a close enough proxy to merit protection. Judges
are free to impose their own value preferences, consciously or unconsciously,
according to their views of the consistency of particular traits with their
notions of American identity.  n99 Judges thus have the discretion to create or
reproduce a normative American identity through Title VII and like statutes.
n100

    Courts have acted consistent with the Framers' wish for an English-speaking
America and have helped enforce that wish. For example, in Garcia v. Gloor,
n101 Hector Garcia was instantly fired for asking a co-worker a job-related
question in Spanish. He was doing his job at the time he was fired; he was
summarily dismissed because he did his job in Spanish. The United States Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled that Garcia's dismissal did not
constitute national origin discrimination, since "national origin" was not the
same as language and because, for a bilingual person, language is not immutable.
n102 The original opinion, however, contained language suggesting that the
judges were simply reinforcing their view of the proper dominance of English:

An employer does not accord his employees a privilege of conversing in English.
English, spoken well or badly, is the language of our Constitution, statutes,
Congress, courts and the vast majority of our nation's people... If the employer
engages a bilingual person, that person is granted neither right nor privilege
by the statute to use the language of his personal preference.  n103

Thus only English is consistent with our laws and culture, according to this
court, and Spanish may be silenced. This opinion was later withdrawn and
replaced by an opinion identical in all respects except that the italicized
language I quoted above had been deleted. Perhaps someone made the judges aware
of the blatant Anglocentrism of the now-missing passage.  [*987]

    Similarly, in Frontera v. Sindell,  n104 the United States Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit denied a Spanish-speaking plaintiff's claim that an
English-only civil service exam violated the Equal Protection Clause and 42
U.S.C. 1981. The court wrote:

It cannot be gainsaid that the common, national language of the United States is
English. Our laws are printed in English and our legislatures conduct their
business in English. Some states even designate English as the official language
of the state... Our national interest in English as the common language is
exemplified by 8 U.S.C. 1423, which requires, in general, English language
literacy as a condition to naturalization as a United States citizen.  n105

   What is remarkable about this paragraph is that with the stroke of a pen, the
judge was able to accomplish that which the well-organized and well-financed
Official English movement has thus far not been able to accomplish: the official
declaration of English as our national language.  n106 Another remarkable
property of this paragraph is how quickly its assertions self-destruct in light
of our legal history. As described earlier, in several states the laws were
printed and the legislative business was conducted in Spanish, and in French,
and in German, as well as in English.  n107

    The judge in Frontera asserted that our national interest in English is
exemplified by the English literacy requirement for naturalized United States
citizenship.  n108 He wrote more truth than he knew. This English literacy
requirement became part of the requirements for naturalized citizenship,
virtually without debate or consideration, as a part of the Subversive
Activities Control Act of 1950,  n109 during the height of the McCarthy era.
Even President Truman, in his veto message, commented on the lack of legislative
consideration given to this and other provisions of the Act.  n110 Our national
interest in English, then, was an interest in controlling subversive activities.
The non-English  [*988]  languages of aliens were deemed subversion per se. The
context does indeed exemplify the nature of our national interest in English. It
is an interest in control and exclusion. It is an interest consistent with the
Framers' plan for a white and English-speaking country.

    Many courts, because of their own biases, favor results that support the
English language and ignore the claims of plaintiffs alleging discrimination
because of language.  n111 More generally, courts enforce mainstream notions of
American identity and deny protection to other expressions of ethnic and racial
identity. This is the judicial enforcement of a normative, English-speaking
American identity. It is also the judicial silencing of the Latino voice, the
judicial reinforcement of Latino invisibility.

   D. The "National Origin" Concept
and the Problem of "Symbolic Deportation"  n112


   So the "national origin" concept serves as a vehicle for judicial imposition
of dominant norms of American identity. As legal rhetoric, the "national origin"
concept also has revealing and troubling social meanings.  n113

    A plaintiff discriminated against because of some aspect of her ethnicity
(other than race or color) must claim protection under the "national origin"
language of Title VII.  n114 She must claim to be of some distinguishable
national origin as a preliminary matter. The "national origin" language of the
statute thus forces many, probably most, plaintiffs to plead a fiction about
themselves and a truth about their ancestors that is also true for virtually
everyone in the country. Assuming that most plaintiffs in "national origin"
discrimination cases are United States citizens by birth, the fiction is that
their national origin is someplace other than the United States. With respect to
ancestry, and with the exception of Native Americans, the truth is that every
American has an ancestry, traced far enough back in time, that began in another
place or nation. When brought by citizens, then, most national origin
discrimination claims require emphasizing the ancestry  [*989]  of parents or
some earlier ancestor to find a national origin, a country of birth, different
from the United States.  n115

    Because of its focus on a fictional difference in national origin and on
ancestry, the "national origin" concept forces plaintiffs to define themselves
as outsiders, belonging to some other country or place of birth and,
correspondingly, outside the scope of American identity. By reinforcing the
notion of "foreign" national origin even among American born citizens, at least
two negative consequences result. First, United States citizens who constitute
part of the American polity and part of American identity must define themselves
as having a foreign national origin and as outsiders not belonging to the
American community. This is a false, statutory and Court-created outsider
status, since Americans born here all have equal claim to American national
origin and to equal citizenship as a birth right under the Fourteenth Amendment.
n116

    Second, the operation of the "national origin" concept reinforces unstated
norms of "true" American identity and reinforces an underinclusive conception of
American identity. By making ancestry the significant concept in claiming
statutory protection, the statute excludes many ethnic traits of United States
citizens, including different languages, accents, and names, from the legal and
cultural conception of United States identity.  n117

    In addition to raising questions about the extent to which ethnically
different Americans "belong" to this nation, this forced identification with
foreign national origins has powerful connotations regarding loyalty to this
country. The American identification of foreign origins with disloyalty to the
United States and its form of government has been a prominent theme throughout
American legal history. During the controversy over the Alien and Sedition Acts
of 1798, the Federalists attempted to link Republican opposition to their
policies with allegiance to the French and thus to label the Republicans as
traitors.  n118 During World War II, over 100,000 persons of Japanese ancestry,
including 70,000 American citizens, were forcibly evacuated and incarcerated
merely because of their ancestry and race and regardless of the unquestioned
loyalty of most of them to the  [*990]  United States.  n119 And during the
Communist scare of the 1950s, people of foreign origin, particularly those of
eastern European origin, had their loyalty questioned. The disloyalty attributed
throughout our history to those Americans identified as foreign or ethnically
different has had profound social and psychological consequences for them.
Ironically, these incidents illustrate that historically the real problem has
been the lack of loyalty of the American public and its government to its
citizens who are ethnically different from the mainstream.  n120

    The "national origin" concept thus perpetuates certain false beliefs about
what is and what is not American. The falsity lies in the concept that Americans
who differ ethnically from unstated norms of American identity are from a
different place than the United States. Ethnically different Americans are
marginalized because of their ethnic differences, which are made attributable to
fictional foreign origins which further remove these Americans and their traits
to a periphery outside American national identity. Thus the "national origin"
concept, now meant to protect Americans from discrimination, in fact operates to
exclude ethnically different Americans, at times overtly in court decisions and
at times surreptitiously in the meaning and use of the term "national origin."
This is symbolic deportation outside the borders of the United States.


   Conclusion


   Latinos are made invisible and foreign, therefore, in several contexts: in
the reporting of significant racial events, in the bookstores, in the historical
conception of America as a white and English-speaking nation, and in the
operation of the "national origin" concept. We are made invisible and foreign,
despite our longtime presence, substance, and citizenship.

    Latinos must be recognized as full and equal members of our community. This
equality I describe is an equality of respect and of dignity for the full
identity and personhood of Latino people. It is an equality and respect for the
similarities we share with our fellow Americans. It is also an equality and
respect for the differences we contribute to American identity. In 1883, Walt
Whitman complained that the states ""showed too much of the British and German
influence.'"  n121 ""To that composite American identity of the future,'"
[*991]  Whitman wrote, ""Spanish character will supply some of the most needed
parts.'"  n122 I believe that our Mexican and Latino character continues to
supply some of our most needed parts.

    We have long spoken. It is past time for people to listen. We have long
lived. It is past time for recognition. We have long belonged to America.
Longer, perhaps, than even you. As we struggle toward our rightful place in
American society, and as America, in turn, listens to us and recognizes us,
there will be fewer deaths by English. One-way adaptation to the Framers' plan,
complicity in that barren, colorless plan, only aggravates the symptoms of
disease. Only mutual recognition of our interdependence and mutual respect may
supply a cure.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous OffensesRiot, Rout &
Unlawful AssemblyGeneral OverviewCriminal Law & ProcedureTrialsExamination of
WitnessesVideotaped TestimonyGovernmentsNative AmericansProperty Rights

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Earl Shorris, Latinos: A Biography of the People 3 (1992).




n2.  Id.




n3.  The right of bilingual Latinos to express themselves at work in Spanish has
received little protection under the "national origin" provisions of Title VII.
42 U.S.C. 2000e-2,
-3, -5, -16 (1988); see, e.g., Garcia v. Spun Steak Co., 998 F.2d 1480, 1490
(9th Cir. 1993) (holding that disciplinary action against employee for speaking
Spanish in violation of English-only rule does not state claim of "national
origin" discrimination), cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 2726 (1994); Garcia v. Gloor,
618 F.2d 264, 272 (5th Cir. 1980) (same), cert. denied, 449 U.S. 1113 (1981).




n4.  Latino people began migrating northward into what is now the Southwestern
United States soon after Spanish conquerors arrived in 1519. Charles Gibson,
Spain in America 25 (1966); A. Curtis Wilgus, The Development of Hispanic
America 89 (1941). Spanish was the first European language to be introduced into
America. The first English-speaking colonization began almost a century later in
Virginia in 1607. Settlements to Society 1607-1763, A Documentary History of
Colonial America 1-2 (Jack P. Greene ed., 1975).




n5.  Joe R. Feagin & Hernan Vera, White Racism 83-84 (1995).




n6.  Id.




n7.  Id. at 97.




n8.  See Kimberle Crenshaw & Gary Peller, Reel Time/Real Justice, in Reading
Rodney King Reading Urban Uprising 56, 58 (Robert Gooding-Williams ed., 1993)
(describing parallels between King beating and "old-style, garden-variety racist
power"). See generally Houston A. Baker, Scene ... Not Heard, in Reading Rodney
King Reading Urban Uprising, supra, at 38-43 (placing King beating into context
of white violence against slaves).




n9.  See Feagin & Vera, supra note 5, at 103-04.




n10.  See id. at 104. The presentation of white victimization through Reginald
Denny may have functioned as the justification or rationalization or balance to
"prove" that blacks do not suffer from unequal treatment. As columnist Samuel
Francis wrote in the Washington Times, the Denny trial was a ""racially rigged
case'" showing that whites ""no longer enjoy the same legal rights ... as
non-whites.'" Id. at 103 (quoting Samuel Francis, Black Civil Rights, White
Civil Rights, Wash. Times, Oct. 22, 1993, at A27). This was the media's way of
creating a kind of colorblind symmetry out of asymmetrical events.




n11.  See, e.g., Frontline: L.A. is Burning (PBS television broadcast, Apr. 27,
1993) (comments of spokesman for Korean American community, describing media
coverage of riots).




n12.  In the opinion of some commentators, Korean Americans were the chief
victims of the riots. See, e.g., Michael Omi & Howard Winant, The Los Angeles
"Race Riot" and Contemporary U.S. Politics, in Reading Rodney King Reading Urban
Uprising, supra note 8, at 97, 104-05.




n13.  Cf. Robert Gooding-Williams, "Look, a Negro!," in Reading Rodney King
Reading Urban Uprising, supra note 8, at 157, 166-67 (describing defense
attorneys' attempts to depict Rodney King as wild animal, "a wild and
chaos-bearing black man").




n14.  Cf. Lisa C. Ikemoto, Traces of the Master Narrative in the Story of
African American/Korean American Conflict: How We Constructed "Los Angeles," 66
S. Cal. L. Rev. 1581, 1582-83 (1993) (criticizing "master narrative" of white
supremacy for utilizing "exclusionary concepts of race" to maintain intergroup
conflict).




n15.  David E. Hayes-Bautista et al., Latinos and the 1992 Los Angeles Riots: A
Behavioral Sciences Perspective, 15 Hispanic J. Behavioral Sci. 427, 429 (1993).
The authors concluded that Latino looting and rioting was opportunistic and
individualistic, taking advantage of the "breakdown in municipal order" rather
than "protesting the Rodney King verdict in a solidaristic expressive fashion."
Id. at 446.




n16.  See id. at 429, 432.




n17.  See id. at 428, 443.




n18.  See id. at 446-47; see also Feagin & Vera, supra note 5, at 90-91
(describing complaints filed by Blacks and Latinos of police brutality and
malpractice suffered). See generally The Latino Coalition for a New L.A.,
Latinos and the Future of Los Angeles: A Guide to the Twenty-First Century
(1993) (on file with author) (collecting demographic data about Latino community
and describing its needs and ways of meeting those needs).




n19.  It is striking that there has been no easily available and accurate
portrayal of what happened during the riots. Dr. Hayes-Bautista's analysis
appears in the Hispanic Journal of Behavioral Sciences which, by its title and
subject, is not likely to attract a mass audience.




n20.  See Hayes-Bautista et al., supra note 15, at 428 ("Both the initial media
coverage of the riots and the policy analyses that followed portrayed them as an
issue involving the Black and Anglo population of Los Angeles, with
Korean-Americans cast as a bystander population caught up in the swirl of
events.").




n21.  Hayes-Bautista et al., supra note 15.




n22.  See supra note 19.




n23.  See Virginia I. Postrel, Debunking a Myth, Atlanta J. & Const.,
Editorials, May 12, 1992, at A13 ("But the riots were multiracial - television
viewers could see plenty of whites among the rioters smashing downtown, and
Latinos among those hauling away furniture, food and other loot from ravaged
stores. The victims, too, came in all colors, as did the cleanup crews. To
suggest otherwise is not only to grossly distort the truth but to further the
fear and bigotry that led to the beating of Rodney King, to the verdicts and the
riots."); Virginia I. Postrel, The Real Story Goes Beyond Black and White, L.A.
Times, May 8, 1992, at B9 (same).




n24.  See, e.g., Gooding-Williams, supra note 13, at 169 (mentioning, but
failing to discuss, "substantial Hispanic involvement in the uprising"); Omi &
Winant, supra note 12, at 104, 106 (identifying Latinos among groups rioting and
arrested).




n25.  See Reading Rodney King Reading Urban Uprising, supra note 8. More apt
titles might have been "Reading Part of an Urban Uprising," or "Misreading Urban
Uprising."




n26.  See Sumi K. Cho, Korean Americans vs. African Americans: Conflict and
Construction, in Reading Rodney King Reading Urban Uprising, supra note 8, at
196, 196-97 (describing society's construction of "Black/white binary
opposition" and "Black/white framing of race issues"). While Cho goes on to
explain how Koreans coexist within and without these structures, a full
restructuring of the binary model obviously requires the inclusion of Latinos
and other groups.




n27.  With delicious irony, or deliverance, or divine intervention, just after
presenting this paper at the Southwest/Southeast People of Color Legal
Scholarship Conference in May 1995, I discovered with glee, in a tiny bookstore,
my first appropriate Latino Studies section. It contained only books about
United States Latinos, including Rodolfo Acu<tild n>a's Occupied America, and an
extensive selection of Chicano and Chicana poetry. This remains the only
bookstore I have seen with an appropriate Latino Studies section. Other
bookstores should follow its lead.




n28.  This should not suggest that all is well with respect to the marketing of
books authored by African Americans. See Martin Pedersen, Sales on Ice,
Publishers Wkly., Feb. 14, 1994, at 20, 20 ("After years of feeling ignored by
mainstream publishing, African American booksellers are extremely skeptical when
publishers defend their efforts in this area;" some black booksellers "believe
that mainstream publishers regularly underestimate the size of the African
American book market... "They still don't believe that black people read.'"
(quoting Blanche Richardson, a California bookstore manager)). One wonders to
what extent booksellers even realize that a market for Latino or Hispanic books
exists at all, given the difficulty of finding any of the many good books on
Latino History at virtually every bookstore.




n29.  See Carey McWilliams, North from Mexico: The Spanish-Speaking People of
the United States 15 (Greenwood Press 1968) (1949) ("Historically, the
Spanish-speaking have often complained that little is known about them (which is
true) and that their problems have received little attention by the larger
American public (which is also true)... A Mexican-American was quoted in
Newsweek as saying, "We're the best kept secret in America.'"). Some booksellers
are beginning to appreciate the extent of demand for Spanish-language books.
"Mexico's major publisher, Fondo de Cultura Economica, has seen its distribution
in the United States increase dramatically; some of the strong categories
include literature, history, anthropology, books that allow Latinos to learn
more about their cultural roots." Juana Ponce de Leon, Booksellers See Growth
Opportunities, Publishers Wkly., Dec. 28, 1992, at 42, 42.




n30.  The Federalist No. 2, at 91 (John Jay) (Isaac Kramnick ed., 1988).




n31.  See, e.g., Glenn Weaver, Benjamin Franklin and the Pennsylvania Germans,
14 Wm. & Mary Q. (n.s.) 536, 536 (1957), reprinted in The Aliens: A History of
Ethnic Minorities in America 47, 47 (Leonard Dinnerstein & Frederic C. Jaher
eds., 1970) ("From the beginning of his business and public career Benjamin
Franklin had been suspicious of German business honesty and political
loyalty.").




n32.  2 Albert B. Faust, The German Element in the United States 14 (1909).




n33.  Letter from Benjamin Franklin to Peter Collinson (May 9, 1753), in 4 The
Papers of Benjamin Franklin 479, 484-85 (Leonard W. Labaree et al. eds., 1961)
(third alteration in original).




n34.  Benjamin Franklin, Observations Concerning the Increase of Mankind,
Peopling of Countries, Etc. (1751), in 3 The Writings of Benjamin Franklin 63,
73 (Albert H. Smyth ed., 1905).




n35.  Id. at 72.




n36.  Id.




n37.  Id. at 73.




n38.  Id. at 72.




n39.  Id. at 73.




n40.  See id. at 72-73. These paragraphs, including the paragraph on Germans,
were deleted from all editions of Franklin's essay that appeared during his
lifetime except the first edition. Id. at 63 n.1, 72 n.1.




n41.  Thomas Jefferson, Letter to James Monroe (Nov. 24, 1801), in Thomas
Jefferson: Writings 1096, 1097 (Merrill D. Peterson ed., 1984) (emphasis added).




n42.  Thomas Jefferson, Notes on the State of Virginia, Query XIV (1844),
reprinted in Thomas Jefferson: Writings, supra note 41, at 264-65.




n43.  Id. at 270; see also Ronald Takaki, Iron Cages: Race and Culture in
Nineteenth-Century America 49-50 (1979) (describing Jefferson's thoughts about
dealing with America's African population).




n44.  See Takaki, supra note 43, at 33.




n45.  Id. at 34-35.




n46.  Id. at 95.




n47.  Id.




n48.  Id.




n49.  Id. at 95-96.




n50.  Id. at 97.




n51.  It is understatement to note, as Judge Higginbotham wrote, that the
English colonists had "difficulties in fostering a sense of community in a
colony [Virginia] populated by Portuguese, Spanish, French, Turks, Dutch,
blacks, and Indians." A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., In the Matter of Color: Race
and the Legal Process 29 (1978).




n52.  Foreigners in Their Native Land: Historical Roots of the Mexican Americans
33 (David J. Weber ed., 1973) (introducing excerpt of the First Census of Los
Angeles, infra note 53).




n53.  First Census of Los Angeles (Thomas W. Temple II trans., 1781), in 15
Historical Soc'y of S. Cal., Annual Publications, pt. 2, at 148-49 (1931),
excerpted in Foreigners in Their Native Land, supra note 52, at 34-35.




n54.  Cong. Globe, 30th Cong., 1st Sess., 98 (1848) (remarks of Sen. Calhoun),
excerpted in Foreigners in Their Native Land, supra note 52, at 135 (emphasis
added).




n55.  Foreigners in Their Native Land, supra note 52, at 59-60.




n56.  2 Rufus B. Sage: His Letters and Papers, 1836-1847, at 82-87 (LeRoy R.
Hafen & Ann W. Hafen eds., 1956), excerpted in Foreigners in Their Native Land,
supra note 52, at 72, 74.




n57.  Walter P. Webb, The Texas Rangers: A Century of Frontier Defense 13-14 (2d
ed. 1965), excerpted in Foreigners in Their Native Land, supra note 52, at 77.




n58.  See supra note 4.




n59.  See McWilliams, supra note 29, at 21-34, 48-59.




n60.  See generally Robert Coles, The Old Ones of New Mexico (1975) (describing
old generations of Spanish-speaking New Mexicans); George Sanchez, Forgotten
People 43-57 (2d ed. 1967) (same).




n61.  Jose M. Sanchez, A Trip to Texas in 1828, 29 Sw. Hist. Q., Apr. 1926, at
270-71 (Carlos E. Casta<tild n>eda trans.), excerpted in Foreigners in Their
Native Land, supra note 52, at 81-82.




n62.  Juan N. Seguin, Personal Memoirs of John N. Seguin, From the Year 1834 to
the Retreat of General Woll from the City of San Antonio, 1842, at iii-iv, 18-32
(1858), excerpted in Foreigners in Their Native Land, supra note 52, at 178.




n63.  See supra notes 30, 41-43 and accompanying text.




n64.  See supra notes 31-40 and accompanying text.




n65.  Letter from Thomas Jefferson to John Dickinson (Jan. 13, 1807), in Thomas
Jefferson: Writings, supra note 41, at 1169, 1169-70.




n66.  Dennis Baron, The English-Only Question 10 (1990).




n67.  See Heinz Kloss, The American Bilingual Tradition 128 (1977) (discussing
how Congress only permitted New Mexico to become a state after its people became
"thoroughly acculturated" - meaning, once a bare majority were English speakers,
as was finally the case after 1910). As of 1902, New Mexico had been petitioning
for statehood for approximately 50 years. Citizens of New Mexico complained
about the government's persistent denial of statehood in a petition adopted by a
convention held in Albuquerque on October 15, 1901. 35 Cong. Rec. 5143 (1902).
They declared their entitlement to statehood "by virtue of the principles
enunciated in the Declaration of Independence," much of whose language they
adopted in their petition. See id. at 5143-44.




n68.  The principal objection to New Mexico's admission to statehood was
prejudice against the Spanish language and Spanish and Mexican heritage of New
Mexicans. Representative Knox, an advocate for statehood, described the
arguments of opponents: "There has been a great deal of talk about those people
- about their being Spaniards and Mexicans and "greasers' - people who do not
come up to the American standard, who have lain without progress for a great
many years." 35 Cong. Rec. 5139 (1902); see also 45 Cong. Rec. 707 (1910)
(discussing Senators' concerns about Spanish language and language diversity in
United States). Knox went on to refute those arguments, noting that residents of
New Mexico had



   an excellent school system... I have heard it said by members of the House
that they have schools in which Spanish is the language taught, and that is
decidedly objectionable. Generally speaking, that statement is not correct. They
have a very excellent school system. It is the district school system of New
England and the rest of the United States.



   35 Cong. Rec. 5139 (1902). Senator Teller also responded to the arguments
that the language of the territory's residents was a reason for denying them
statehood:



   I confess to some irritation and some vexation when I am told that among the
reasons why you should deny citizenship to these people is the fact that they
still speak the Spanish tongue and have to have an interpreter in court. I do
not wonder that the Spaniards of New Mexico speak the Spanish tongue, and I
should have less respect for them if they did not. They come of a great race.
They can go back not long since when they were the dominating power of the
world; and if you want to go back into the history of individuals, you can find
among the people of that race men who were as thoroughly imbued with the ideas
that were crystallized in our Declaration of Independence as you can find
anywhere in the world. You can go back hundreds of years and find those men
proclaiming these great political truths that sometimes we think are of modern
origin and with respect to which we are entitled to claim credit as the
promoters and discoverers. The history of her statesmen and her warriors gives
to the people of that country a right to be proud of their race and of the
people from whom they come. I know families in ... New York that retained the
Dutch language for more than two hundred and fifty years, and were not willing
to part with it because they remembered the glory of William of Orange and the
Dutch people from whom they sprung.



   39 Cong. Rec. 1687 (1905).




n69.  See Kloss, supra note 67, at 12, tbl. 1-2 (detailing sizable non-English
speaking minority populations in various states at their date of annexation).
The number of German settlers was approximately 220,000 by 1790. The approximate
numbers of other non-English European settlers in various territories by the
time of their annexation to the United States were: Spanish speakers, 41,000, by
1867 (reflecting the annexation of Florida, Texas, New Mexico, and California);
French speakers, 43,000, by 1803 (reflecting the annexation of the Midwest,
Louisiana, and Missouri). See id.




n70.  See Juan F. Perea, Demography and Distrust: An Essay on American
Languages, Cultural Pluralism and Official English, 77 Minn. L. Rev. 269, 285-87
(1992).




n71.  See 9 Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789, at 1088
(Worthington C. Ford ed., 1907) (1777) (listing official English, German, and
French language versions of the Articles of Confederation).




n72.  See generally Perea, supra note 70, at 309-27 (detailing state
constitutional and statutory implementation of official bilingualism in
Pennsylvania, California, New Mexico, and Louisiana).




n73.  Cal. Const. of 1849, art. XI, 21.




n74.  See, e.g., Act of Apr. 29, 1852, ch. 50, 4, 1852 Cal. Stat. 113, 113-14
(describing specifications for printing public documents); Act of Mar. 15, 1851,
ch. 93, 2, 1851 Cal. Stat. 404, 404-05 (providing for translation of state laws
into Spanish); Act of Apr. 22, 1850, ch. 124, 1-2, 1849 Cal. Stat. 340, 340-41
(describing specifications for printing and distribution of public state
documents).




n75.  Act of Mar. 24, 1843, No. 56, 1, 1843 Pa. Laws 110, 110 (creating office
of state printer).




n76.  See supra note 33 and accompanying text.




n77.  Act of Apr. 9, 1856, No. 280, 10, 1856 Pa. Laws 262, 262-65 (providing for
printing and distribution of public state documents).




n78.  See Perea, supra note 70, at 311-15 (describing legislative debate over
bilingual education in Pennsylvania); id. at 321 (describing bilingual education
in New Mexico); id. at 325-26 (describing bilingual education in Louisiana).




n79.  The German college at Lancaster is now known as Franklin and Marshall
College. See Perea, supra note 70, at 291-92 (describing founding and early
history of Franklin College); Weaver, supra note 31, at 61-64 (same).




n80.  See Perea, supra note 70, at 320-23 (tracing history of official
bilingualism in New Mexico); see also Act of Apr. 9, 1943, ch. 31, 1, 1943 N.M.
Laws 34 (requiring bilingual publication of all laws passed by legislature); Act
of Mar. 17, 1931, ch. 113, 1, 1931 N.M. Laws 201 (same).




n81.  Act of Mar. 26, 1790, ch. III, 1, 1 Stat. 103 (emphasis added)
(establishing conditions and procedures for naturalization); Act of Jan. 29,
1795, ch. xx, 1, 1 Stat. 414 (emphasis added) (repealing and revising conditions
set forth in act of 1790).




n82.  See Immigration Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 153, 155, 159 (prescribing rights of
immigrants to United States visas). The effective date for the national origin
system for determining immigration quotas was delayed until 1929. E.P.
Hutchinson, Legislative History of American Immigration Policy 1798-1965, at 470
(1981); see also Perea, supra note 70, at 335 (describing national origin quotas
as attempt to preserve existing racial composition of United States).




n83.  See 42 U.S.C. 2000e-2, -3, -5, -16 (1988).




n84.  See, e.g., Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Guidelines on
Discrimination Because of National Origin, 29 C.F.R. 1606 (1995) (describing
scope of "national origin" language in prohibiting discrimination because
individual has physical, cultural, or linguistic characteristics corresponding
to "different" national origin or because of her place of origin).




n85.  In the meager legislative history of the term "national origin" in Title
VII, however, legislators extended its meaning slightly to mean both one's
national origin and one's ancestry. See Barbara L. Schlei & Paul Grossman,
Employment Discrimination Law 305 (2d ed. 1983); see also Espinoza v. Farah Mfg.
Co., 414 U.S. 86, 89 (1973) (asserting that deletion of word "ancestry" from
early versions of Title VII was not intended as material change and suggesting
that terms "national origin" and "ancestry" were considered synonymous).




n86.  Webster's New World Dictionary of the American Language 50 (2d collegiate
ed. 1986).




n87.  See Joe R. Feagin, Racial and Ethnic Relations 8-9 (3d ed. 1989) (defining
term "ethnic group").




n88.  See Harvard Encyclopedia of American Ethnic Groups at vi (Stephan
Thernstrom ed., 1980) ("Ethnicity is an immensely complex phenomenon. [Ethnic]
groups are characterized by some of the following features, although in
combinations that vary considerably: common geographic origin; migratory status;
race; language or dialect; religious faith or faiths; ties that transcend
kinship, neighborhood, and community boundaries; shared traditions, values, and
symbols; literature, folklore, and music; food preferences; settlement and
employment patterns; special interests in regard to politics in the homeland and
in the United States; institutions that specifically serve and maintain the
group; an internal sense of distinctiveness; an external perception of
distinctiveness." (emphasis added)).




n89.  See Gordon W. Allport, The Nature of Prejudice 89 (25th ann. ed. 1979);
id. at 108-09 ("Even a fragment of visibility, however, focuses people's minds
on the possibility that everything may be related to this fragment. A person's
character is thought to tie in with his slant eyes, or a menacing aggressiveness
is thought to be linked to dark color. Here is an instance of our common
tendency to sharpen and exaggerate a feature that captures attention and to
assimilate as much as possible to the visual category thus created."); id. at
113 ("Most human characteristics ascribed to race are undoubtedly due to
cultural diversity and should, therefore, be regarded as ethnic, not racial.").




n90.  Id. at 132.




n91.  Id. at 131-32.




n92.  See supra note 84.




n93.  Recently, in Public Employees Retirement Sys. v. Betts, 492 U.S. 158
(1989), the Supreme Court rejected the EEOC's position that a retirement system
which denied disability retirement benefits to employees over the age of 60
violated the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. In upholding the legality of
the plan, the Court explicitly struck down an EEOC guideline to the contrary.
Id. at 171; see also, e.g., General Elec. Co. v. Gilbert, 429 U.S. 125, 140-45
(1976) (rejecting EEOC's guidelines and explaining "that courts properly may
accord less weight to such guidelines than to administrative regulations which
Congress has declared shall have the force of law"). But see Espinoza v. Farah
Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 86, 97-98 (1973) (Douglas, J., dissenting) (citing EEOC's
amicus brief and finding EEOC interpretation of Title VII entitled to judicial
deference). See generally Memorandum for the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission as Amicus Curiae at 4, Espinoza v. Farah Mfg. Co., 414 U.S. 86 (1973)
(No. 72-671) (arguing that EEOC regulations are entitled to great weight in
interpreting Title VII).

   Lower courts have also rejected the EEOC's guidelines on national origin
discrimination. See, e.g., Garcia v. Spun Steak Co., 998 F.2d 1480, 1489 (9th
Cir. 1993) (stating that "we are not bound by the Guidelines" in rejecting
guideline against "English-only" rule in the workplace (citing Espinoza, 414
U.S. at 94)), cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 2726 (1994).




n94.  See Juan F. Perea, Ethnicity and Prejudice: Reevaluating "National Origin"
Discrimination Under Title VII, 35 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 805, 810-21 (1994)
(describing evolution and bare consideration of term "national origin").




n95.  The debate in the House yielded no definition or explanation of what
national origin discrimination meant. See United States Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission, Legislative History of Titles VII and XI of Civil Rights
Act of 1964, at 3179-81 (1968) (reproducing debate over "national origin" and
citing debate in House on Feb. 2, 1964, found in 110 Cong. Rec. 2548-49 (1964)).




n96.  414 U.S. 86 (1973).




n97.  See, e.g., Garcia v. Spun Steak Co., 998 F.2d 1480 (9th Cir. 1993), cert.
denied, 114 S. Ct. 2726 (1994); Fragante v. City & County of Honolulu, 888 F.2d
591 (9th Cir. 1989), cert. denied, 494 U.S. 1081 (1990).




n98.  See generally Perea, supra note 94, at 846-50 (discussing how judges' own
values and preferences are manifested in their interpretations of the "national
origin" term).




n99.  See generally Charles R. Lawrence, The Id, the Ego, and Equal Protection:
Reckoning with Unconscious Racism, 39 Stan. L. Rev. 317, 322-23 & nn.20-26
(1987) (explaining that much bias is unconscious and results from "deeply
imbedded" cultural experiences).




n100.  The unstated normative American identity of the workforce might be
described as follows: The norm corresponds to the dominant culture of the United
States, which is "Caucasian, English-speaking, Protestant, and of comparatively
distant Anglo-Saxon or European background," as described by President Truman's
Committee on Civil Rights. See President's Committee on Civil Rights, To Secure
These Rights 14 (1947); see also Milton M. Gordon, Assimilation in American Life
72 (1964) (noting that culture of white, Protestant, English-speaking,
Anglo-Saxon Americans is dominant in United States). The norm is also male,
monolingual, and heterosexual.




n101.  609 F.2d 156 (5th Cir.), withdrawn, 618 F.2d 264 (5th Cir. 1980), cert.
denied, 449 U.S. 1113 (1981).




n102.  Garcia, 618 F.2d at 268-69.




n103.  Garcia, 609 F.2d at 161 (emphasis added).




n104.  522 F.2d 1215 (6th Cir. 1975).




n105.  Id. at 1220.




n106.  See Perea, supra note 70, at 340-50 (describing the Official English
movement); Mark Shaffer, Controversial Ceremony in Spanish Brings Tears to Eyes
of 76 New Citizens, Ariz. Republic, July 3, 1993, at B1 (noting that
representative of Official English movement sent letter to Attorney General Reno
complaining about Spanish-language ceremony).




n107.  See Perea, supra note 70, at 309-28 (describing use of German in
Pennsylvania, Spanish in California and New Mexico, and French in Louisiana);
see also notes 70-80 and accompanying text.




n108.  Frontera, 522 F.2d at 1220.




n109.  See Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950, ch. 1024, 64 Stat. 987,
1018 (repealed 1952) (the English language requirement for naturalization is
currently codified at 8 U.S.C. 1423 (1988)). See generally Perea, supra note 70,
at 337-40 (describing legal history of language requirements for citizenship).




n110.  96 Cong. Rec. 15,629 (1950) (veto message of President Truman).




n111.  See Garcia v. Gloor, 609 F.2d 156 (5th Cir.) (expressing preference for
English), withdrawn, 618 F.2d 264 (5th Cir. 1980), cert. denied, 449 U.S. 1113
(1981); Frontera v. Sindell, 522 F.2d 1215, 1220 (6th Cir. 1975) (same); see
also supra notes 101-08 and accompanying text.




n112.  For a more detailed discussion of the lack of protection provided by the
"national origin" language in Title VII, see generally Perea, supra note 94.




n113.  See id. at 853-57 (describing how "national origin" language results in
false belief about who is American).




n114.  42 U.S.C. 2000e-2, -3, -5, -16 (1988).




n115.  See Perea, supra note 94, at 853-54.




n116.  U.S. Const. amend. XIV, 1 ("All persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside."); see Perea, supra note 94, at
855.




n117.  See Perea, supra note 94, at 855.




n118.  See generally James M. Smith, Freedom's Fetters: The Alien and Sedition
Laws and American Civil Liberties 12, 20-21 (1956).




n119.  See Korematsu v. United States, 323 U.S. 214 (1944) (upholding evacuation
and detention of Fred Korematsu, whose loyalty was unquestioned); see also
Ronald Takaki, Strangers from a Different Shore 390-97 (1989) (describing
President Roosevelt's executive order for evacuation of Japanese Americans and
conditions at internment camps).




n120.  See Perea, supra note 70, at 338-40.




n121.  McWilliams, supra note 29, at 10 (quoting Walt Whitman).




n122.  Id. (quoting Walt Whitman).


                             695 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 10, 1990, Saturday

Nine centuries of British rioting; Violent demonstrations are a national
tradition, David Keys reports - and unpopular new taxes have often provoked
insurrection on the streets

BYLINE: By DAVID KEYS

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 28

LENGTH: 749 words


''SHE, with too much boldness and confidence . . . on hearing the frightful
noise from the city . . . immediately sought refuge in flight.''

Thus the medieval chroniclers described the political retreat of Matilda, the
twelfth century would-be Queen of England who was forced by the earliest
recorded riots in British history to abandon her plans for permanent power.

Indeed, the event - in which the citizens of London poured on to the streets
''like thronging swarms from beehives'' - was only the first of a long
succession of riots, uprisings, rebellions and revolutions that have erupted
with considerable frequency throughout British history.

Riots and insurrection have been part of the British political scene for most of
the past 900 years. There have been at least 100 violent rebellions of one sort
or another over those nine centuries.

Running through most of them there has been a common thread: resistance to
changes in the status quo. Nearly all riots, from the twelfth century to the
present day, have not been fundamentally in support of demands for change or
reform, but about the reality or the fear of new impositions, especially new
taxes.

Britain's second recorded great riot, which broke out in London in 1196, was
sparked off by the introduction of a new fiscal measure - a tax to raise cash to
ransom King Richard I from the Germans.

Fifty-two thousand rioters are reputed to have entered into a rebel association
to resist the tax. Led by a hirsute lawyer called Longbeard, the revolt by all
accounts terrified London's ruling elite. It was a populist insurrection against
what Longbeard described as ''the heaviness of the rich man's hand''.

The revolt failed, but new taxes remained a recurrent cause of political
violence. Probably the most celebrated uprising against new taxation - indeed
against a poll tax - was the Peasants' Revolt itself of 1381. That revolt,
despite its name, was at least partially an urban insurrection. The Pilgrimage
of Grace revolt of 1536 in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, while better known as an
expression of anti- Reformation sentiment, was also partly in opposition to new
fiscal measures.

In the seventeenth century, the ill-fated Charles I provoked opposition by
imposing the notorious Ship Money tax, a measure often seen as the first step on
the road that led to civil war.

But if there was one measure which was guaranteed to spark off trouble, it was
George III's attempt to tax strong drink. So it was that in 1763, apple growers
and imbibers combined to rock the West Country to its rural foundations with a
series of cider tax riots.

New taxes threatening people's pockets have led to more riots than most other
political innovations. However, the British have never felt the need to search
that hard for a reason to engage in violent demonstration.

At Tyburn in London in the 1830s, for instance, there was a series of corpse
riots, when the friends and relatives of execution victims rioted to prevent
bodies being taken by doctors from the gallows for medical dissection.

In Lincoln in 1726 there was a spire riot, so called because the people
mistakenly thought the authorities were about to remove the cathedral spires.

In 1820, there were riots in protest against King George IV's attempt to divorce
his adulterous wife. The crowds thought it unfair because he was more adulterous
than she.

The evolution of the fully modern British riot really dates from around 1700.
Before then unrest often took the form of armed rebellion. Indeed, one could
even suggest that bouts of rioting have replaced open revolt as a means of
political expression. For that at least governments can be thankful, as well as
for the fact that, remarkably, the British riot rarely results in serious loss
of life.

Faced with the poll tax riots of March 1990, historians are likely to look back
not to the 1300s or the 1700s but to 1935 for some hint as to what might
develop. For in the mid-1930s the Tory- dominated National Government introduced
new unemployment relief scales. The riots and demonstrations that the new scales
provoked were so threatening that the Government was stopped dead in its tracks.

The authorities had given assurances that the new scales would make nobody worse
off. They got their arithmetic wrong - and people were hit financially far
harder than had been anticipated. The parallels with the present situation are
impressive, but we do not yet know whether the outcome will be the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd


                             696 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             July 21, 1988 Thursday

WE HAD TO RIOT, SAYS INMATE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: HUME C

LENGTH: 137 words


We had to riot, says inmate AN alleged ringleader of last December's Brisbane
Jail riot told the Brisbane Magistrates Court yesterday: ""We had to riot." When
asked what he had to say to allegations about his part in the riot, Mark Douglas
Flewell-Smith, 28, said: ""We were put in a situation where we had to riot, we
had no option." The prosecutor, Sgt Peter Murray, said prison officers saw
Flewell-Smith and Gary Grey destroying prison cells and inciting other prisoners
to riot. Flewell-Smith pleaded guilty to a charge of having taken part in a riot
at Brisbane Jail on December 2. Mr S. Deer, CSM, sentenced him to 10 months'
jail, to be added to his term. Grey, 28, also pleaded guilty to a charge of
having taken part in the riot. Mr Deer sentenced Grey to eight months' jail, to
be added to his term.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             697 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Buffalo News (New York)

                           December 11, 2007 Tuesday
                                CENTRAL EDITION

Justice delayed but, at last, not denied;
Thanks to a UB historian, vindication for a newsman indicted in Tulsa Race Riot

BYLINE: By Jay Rey - NEWS STAFF REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Focus: Black History; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 985 words


Andrew J. Smitherman was a crusading newspaperman for the black community in
Tulsa, Okla., before he was indicted on charges of inciting a deadly race riot
in 1921, and moved to Buffalo.

Only now -- 46 years after his death -- is Smitherman getting some vindication.

During a ceremonial court hearing scheduled for today in Tulsa, the indictment
filed against Smitherman 86 years ago will be dismissed, thanks to an
enterprising historian at the University at Buffalo.

Barbara Seals Nevergold came across Smitherman's name as she and her colleague,
Peggy Brooks-Bertram, worked on their Uncrowned Queens and Kings project,
chronicling the lives of black women and men whose stories had been largely
forgotten.

Smitherman, known as A.J., earned a law degree and, after Tulsa, he lived for 36
years in Buffalo, where he started a newspaper and was a respected voice in the
black community.

As Nevergold researched the riot and Smitherman's life, she was convinced that
he had been wrongfully accused.

"It became clear to me that Mr. Smitherman was a man of integrity, honesty and
high morals, which is why it is so important to me to clear his name at this
late date," Nevergold said.

The race riot that began in Tulsa on May 31, 1921, is described as the worst in
U.S. history, but the story is widely unknown.

It started, according to the Tulsa Historical Society, when a white female
elevator operator alleged that a young black man had grabbed her arm.

As the news spread, descriptions of the incident became more exaggerated each
time the story was told. The next day, police arrested the man.

By this time, a newspaper report had enflamed whites, who surrounded the
courthouse where the suspect was held.

At some point, a group of black men arrived at the scene in hopes of preventing
a lynching, and were confronted by a white mob. Gunfire erupted, igniting the
riot.

For 16 hours, the black neighborhoods of Tulsa were looted and burned by white
rioters. In the end, 35 city blocks were in ruins, hundreds of people were
injured and as many as 300 people were dead.

Smitherman would later write a lengthy, descriptive poem about that day that
included these lines:

Guns were taken by the hundreds

Ammunition all in sight

Reign of murder, theft and plunder

Was the order of the night.

At that time of the riot, Nevergold said, Smitherman was publisher of the Tulsa
Star, one of the city's first black newspapers.

It is clear, she said, that Smitherman's editorials and articles exposing city
corruption and demanding equal treatments for blacks touched a nerve.

Not so clear, Nevergold said, is the direct involvement of Smitherman, who was
among the men who visited the courthouse to guard the prisoner.

Nonetheless, Smitherman was jailed and posted bail a couple of days later. His
home and business destroyed as he faced indictment, Smitherman left Tulsa with
his wife, Ollie, and children.

"It was the era," said Scott A. Ellsworth, a professor at the University of
Michigan who has written extensively about the Tulsa Race Riot. "Whites went
ahead and blamed blacks for the riot. They decided they were going to blame
anyone who was going to stop the lynching."

But other than a trial removing the city's police chief, it seems that there was
no criminal punishment in the aftermath of the riot.

"When the event happened, it was front-page news all over the world," Ellsworth
said. "But it was a black mark on the city. There was very much of an effort
made to quit talking about the riot. Records were destroyed. People were
threatened not to talk about the riot, even as late as the 1970s."

As Nevergold sifted through documents and old newspapers, she found out that
charges against another man in the case had been dismissed in 2000 at the
request of the man's family.

Nevergold thought: Why not ask the same for Smitherman?

She contacted Tulsa County District Attorney Tim Harris. When Harris agreed to
review the case, he found that no evidence was ever presented and no prosecution
took place.

"There are still many unanswered questions about what happened and why, and
there probably always will be questions," Harris said.

So today, Harris will file a motion to dismiss charges not only against
Smitherman, but all 55 defendants indicted by the grand jury in 1921.

None is believed to be alive.

But Nevergold will be there. She also has been in contact with some of
Smitherman's descendents across the country about the recent developments.

Harris hopes the dismissal will bring some closure to the shameful event that
has been hanging over Tulsa for all these years.

"It became clear to me that the rule of law which governs our search for the
truth in our criminal-justice system broke down during this tragic event," he
said.

Ellsworth commended both Nevergold and Harris but said the story isn't over.

"My concern is for the living victims of the riot," Ellsworth said. "I don't
think we have more than 50, but are we going to do anything for them?"

He pointed out that decades after the riot, a federal lawsuit filed by riot
survivors seeking reparations was dismissed, a ruling later upheld by a federal
appeals court and the U.S. Supreme Court.

"I think [today's action] will serve as a reminder we really don't have closure
yet," Ellsworth said.

After Smitherman left Tulsa, he made stops in Boston and Springfield, Mass. A
warrant was issued for Smitherman in Tulsa, Nevergold said, but he fought
extradition with the help of the NAACP.

In 1925, he settled in Buffalo, and during the Depression used a $100 loan to
start another newspaper.

He published the Buffalo Star, later renamed the Empire Star, for 30 years.
Smitherman had six children and was a devout Catholic. A staunch Democrat, he
made an unsuccessful run for a Common Council seat.

He continued to be an outspoken activist until his death in 1961 at the age of
77.

"He died at his desk," Nevergold said. "He was writing his autobiography."

e-mail: jrey@buffnews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charles Lewis/Buffalo News UB's Barbara Seals Nevergold, left, came
across the name of Andrew Smitherman in research she and Peggy Brooks-Bertram
were doing. Andrew J. Smitherman lived 36 years in Buffalo. Tulsa Historical
Society Black detainees are led to Tulsa Convention Hall after race riot that
began May 31, 1921, causing up to 300 deaths, resulting in the devastation of 35
city blocks and leading to the wrongful indictment of Andrew J. Smitherman and
54 other defendants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 The Buffalo News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             698 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday

Protests aren't race riots, expert says

BYLINE: Estanislao Oziewicz

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 542 words


The violent unrest sweeping France's poor city suburbs resembles the so-called
U.S. ghetto riots of the late 1960s and the Brixton riots of South London in
1981, a U.S. expert said yesterday.

Duke University law professor Donald Horowitz prefers to call them violent
protest demonstrations, and not ethnic or race riots, because the targets are
not members of another group but are instruments of authority.

"If you notice, the first person just died in the French riots," Prof. Horowitz
said. A 61-year-old man beaten up during violence in a suburb north of Paris
died of his injuries yesterday. "If this were like the anti-black riots up to
1943, or like Hindu-Muslim riots, a lot more people would have died."

What is happening in France is similar to what occurred in the United States in
the late 1960s, when civil unrest coursed throughout cities, he said. "They
spread from one place to another. There's a lot of contagion, and because the
grievances are diffuse enough, it's very easy to move them from one place to
another," Prof. Horowitz said. "The U.S. ones spread all over the country except
for the southeast."

Although the Brixton riot of April 11, 1981, did not extend far beyond South
London, its apparent ignition was police behaviour, just as in France. The
French upheaval began Oct. 27 in the low-income Paris suburb of
Clichy-sous-Bois, after the deaths of two teenagers of Mauritanian and Tunisian
origin.

The young men were accidentally electrocuted as they hid from police in a power
substation. They apparently thought they were being chased.

In Brixton, police began an operation at the beginning of April, 1981, aimed at
reducing serious street crime mainly by targeting black young people. On April
10, police were taking an arrested black young man toward a waiting vehicle when
a large crowd intervened.

In the ensuing riot, hundreds of police and civilians were injured. As well,
more than 100 automobiles, including police vehicles, and dozens of buildings
were torched.

"The typical precipitous [event] in this kind of thing, where there's a group
that feels itself subordinate, is police bad behaviour," Prof. Horowitz said.
"So the notion that the police caused the deaths [in France] is very common. And
that's what typically precipitated the events in the United States. The police
are the most immediate manifestation of social authority."

Prof. Horowitz has written several books on ethnic groups in conflict, and
specifically about the French immigrant experience, including The Deadly Ethnic
Riot. He's now working on a book about constitutional design for divided
societies.

According to Agence France-Presse, blogs are being used to call young people
into the streets. Three 16-year-olds from Aix-en-Provence were arrested,
allegedly for calling in their blogs for riots and attacks on police stations,
Justice Minister Pascal Clement said.

But Prof. Horowitz said that although the advent of the Internet makes the
upheaval in France different to some extent, it may not necessarily explain its
quick nationwide expansion.

"In cases like this people hear very quickly about what's happening elsewhere,
anyway. It isn't necessary to have [Internet] technology for it to spread
quickly," he said.

-

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             699 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Star News (Wilmington NC)

                          September 30, 2003, Tuesday

Group to seek reparations for 1898 riot

BYLINE: Millard K. Ives, Staff Writer

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 1B, 3B

LENGTH: 539 words


A Wilmington native has started an organization seeking to recover losses
incurred by the victims of the city's 1898 race riot.

Larry Thomas calls the group the International Organization for Compensation and
Reparations for the Wilmington Victims of 1898.

Mr. Thomas, 53, is organizing a meeting in Wilmington that will include
participation by members of the National Coalition of Blacks for Reparations.
The meeting will be held one day before this year's anniversary of the Nov. 10,
1898, incident.

The organization has started circulating petitions to gather signatures of
residents in favor of recovering the losses sustained by the victims of the
riots. The organization proposes to pass the proceeds to victims' descendants.

"When you had something stolen, you should have an avenue to get it back," Mr.
Thomas said.

He said the new organization would at some point apply for nonprofit status.

During the riot, mobs of white men killed several blacks, ran dozens of black
leaders and their white Republican allies out of town and burned black
businesses - including the city's black-owned newspaper. The rioting essentially
ousted the existing biracial elected city government, causing some to call the
incident more of a coup d'etat than a race riot. Politics as well as economics
and racism have been cited as the cause.

The 1898 Wilmington Race Riot Commission, a group of state and local officials,
is currently studying the 1898 incident to write the state's official version of
what happened.

The commission was not put together to study the possibilities of reparations.
Still, Irv Joyner, chairman of the commission, said Monday that he thought some
type of compensation was a "great idea."

Mr. Joyner said many commission members favor the government making amends for
the 1898 incident. He said they would favor government-funded programs to
benefit blacks, such as economic development initiatives, scholarships and
history displays.

Kenneth Davis, also a member of the commission, said it would be too difficult
to identify the riot's victims and their families, as well as the perpetrators,
to try to seek any reparations.

Commission member Anthony Gentile also questioned the practicality of
determining who would pay whom and where the compensation would come from.
Lethia Hankins, co-chairwoman of the 1898 Memorial Park Foundation and a City
Council candidate, would like to see the incident made a part of the local
school curriculum.

This is not the first time talk has arisen concerning compensation for the
victims of the race riot and those run out of town.

In 1923, residents of a predominantly black community in Florida, called
Rosewood, were killed and forced to flee after a black man there was accused of
assaulting a white woman. In 1994, the Florida legislature decided to compensate
victims with a $ 2.1 million package.

Mr. Thomas said that while he's not sure how much success his group would have,
he's optimistic. "Rosewood proved that it could be done," he said.

Mr. Thomas now resides in Chapel Hill and is the founder and project director of
Larry Thomas and Associates Inc., a cultural arts organization dedicated to jazz
and Caribbean culture.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Star-News file. Larry Thomas, author of aeThe True Story Behind the
Wilmington 10,AE testifies in August in front of the commission for the 1898
Wilmington Race Riot.

                            Copyright 2003 Star News


                             700 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday

Riot-damaged CIM prison dorms get makeover for summer opening

BYLINE: Neil Nisperos, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 693 words


CHINO - State prison officials are moving forward on construction and changes to
procedure following the destructive prison riot at California Institution for
Men in August.

The state is busy with its $5 million project to rebuild and refurbish several
inmate housing dormitories that were burned and significantly damaged in the
riot that resulted in nearly 200 injured inmates and the loss of about 1,300
beds.

Work on the riot-damaged dormitories at CIM's Reception Center-West is expected
to be completed by summer. Officials plan to move in several hundred fewer beds
and lower-risk inmates than were there at the time of the riot, said Scott
Kernan, deputy corrections secretary of adult operations.

"We're not putting the same type of reception center population that had
previously been there prior to the riot," Kernan said.

Chino Mayor Dennis Yates, who along with other local officials remains concerned
over public safety issues associated with impacts from the August riot, said he
is doubtful the planned population level could remain in place unchanged over
time.

"Based on the amount of prisoners being housed there, they'll put more in
there," he said.

On Tuesday, officials with the California Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation released an "after-action" report which highlights areas in need
of improvement after a review of the incident.

Identified changes include better ways to identify inmates during riots and ways
to improve communication with responding law enforcement agencies. Corrections
is searching for an Internet technology solution to provide remote fingerprint
identification to more quickly identify inmates involved in rioting.

The report says the department is using fire-retardant materials and sturdier
metal fixtures as it retrofits the damaged dormitories.

The report comes as the Office of the Inspector General is expected soon to
release its own review of the riot and official response to it.

The riot hastened the closure of the nearby Heman G. Stark Youth Correctional
Facility as part of a estimated $110 million plan to place 2,000 more adult
prison beds in celled units there after a planned refurbishment and placement of
lethal electrical perimeter fencing.

Primary plans related to the conversion of the former youth facility call for a
new inmate reception center there to be called Reception Center-South. Kernan
said administrative and organizational structure for the new site is still being
finalized, though operations are currently being handled under nearby CIM.

The adult prison is just a few miles to the west of the former youth prison on
state-owned land sandwiched between Euclid and Central avenues.

About 700 inmates from the adult prison are already housed in a two-story,
concrete-celled unit at the former youth facility and another 700 are expected
to be moved there later this year.

Local officials, Yates among them, have voiced public safety concerns regarding
another significant movement of adult inmates from CIM.

"Prior to moving more prisoners, we want to make sure there's an electric
perimeter," Yates said. "Indications are they may start moving prisoners now
without proper security measures."

In response to concerns over the increased adult population, Kernan said
Corrections is going to take appropriate steps to deal with security concerns
with physical modifications to the facility and additional staffing.

An audit released by the Office of the Inspector General in 2008 found that poor
handling of dangerous, high-security-risk inmates posed a safety risk for
inmates and staff members.

Auditors in the 2008 report said that Reception Center-West is intended to house
the lowest-risk prisoners who arrive at the prison, with more dangerous
prisoners assigned to the central or east reception centers. Yet prison staff
members assigned inmates to Reception Center-West despite classification scores
that exceeded the limit set for the reception center, auditors reported.

In response to auditors' concerns about the drills, prison supervisors achieved
"full and complete compliance" with the requirement, said Corrections Secretary
Matthew Cate in response to the 2008 report.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             701 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             August 25, 2014 Monday
                                Lucknow Edition

Riot-hit Saharanpur prays for calm as bypoll looms

BYLINE: Avijit.Ghosh@timesgroup.com

SECTION: UTTAR PRADESH

LENGTH: 663 words


The riots happened nearly four weeks ago.Like a sharp burst of acid rain, it
corroded Saharanpur claiming three lives and snatching hundreds of livelihoods.
Now, as the western UP town hobbles back to normal, a fresh battle between
memory and forgetting gets underway. The riot-scarred town is gearing up for an
assembly bypoll on September 13 and voters are wary that election speeches could
inflame passions, adversely affecting the brittle social fabric slowly on the
mend.

"Politicians polarize people. Elections give them an opportunity to do it again.
After the riots, there's unease and fear, although the Rapid Action Force
presence creates a sense of security", says Manu Gupta, dean of students, Jain
Degree College. School principal Anita Kanwar says people are awaiting the polls
with a prayer on their lips."We hope it passes off peacefully," she says.

Filing of nomination began on Wednesday . Samajwadi Party has announced its
candidate. BSP isn't contesting. Congress and BJP are expected to name their
nominees on Saturday . The last day for filing nomination is August 27.

The Saharanpur Nagar assembly seat fell vacant after MLA Raghav Lakhanpal of BJP
contested the 2014 LS polls and overcame Congress' Imran Masood by over 65,000
votes. Lakhanpal won the assembly seat in 2012 despite Mulayam Singh Yadav's SP
sweeping the state.

Riots are rare in Saharanpur. The last was in 1992 after the Babri Masjid
demolition.

Although the Muzaffarnagar riots last September scorched most of western UP ,
mildmannered Saharanpur kept its calm.

But the July 26 riots over a land dispute between Sikhs and Muslims drove
communities apart. Accused No 1 in the riot FIR is Moharram Ali aka Pappu, a
former BSP councilor. Shortly after the riots, Hindi newspapers frontpaged a
photo showing him with top SP leaders, including CM Akhilesh Yadav. The
photograph had been posted on the Facebook home page of Sanjay Garg, SP
candidate for the forthcoming poll. Garg contested the 2012 assembly election on
a BSP ticket.

Underlining his poll agenda, the SP candidate talks of shanti (peace),
bhaichara(brotherhood)

and vikas (development). He blames BJP for magnifying small incidents and making
political capital out of riots."At a ceremony following businessman Harish
Kochar's death in the riot, a BJP leader said: Tum Pakistan se ujad kar aaye
thhe. Yahan se ujad kar kahan jaoge. Isn't this inciting people," asks Garg.

Moharram Ali is known to have campaigned for Congress during the 2014 LS
polls.Masood, an important Congress leader here, whose controversial "boti boti"
remark

on Narendra Modi, earned him instant headlines, said: "I can neither confirm nor
deny if he was in Congress. I can say for sure that nobody has the right to
instigate riots."

Masood too promises to keep his campaign sober."BJP will do what it does
best.But we'll keep the peace," he says. At least on one occasion, Masood walked
the talk.Transporter Moksh Bir Singh recalls last year Masood played peacemaker
when a Muslim woman died under a Kanwariya trolley .

At the moment, there's a rush to become BJP's Saharanpur Nagar candidate. Party
district president Manveer Singh says he's received 64 applications for the job.
The party campaign, he insists, will focus on the absence of law and order and
electric

ity shortage. "As for the riots, video footage is available for all to see. The
government doesn't want to act against the real rioters," he says.

Despite all parties talking harmony , a mismatch between words and deeds cannot
be ruled out, reason why Saharanpur's new DM Inderbir Singh Yadav is taking no
chances. "We had a video conference with the Election Commission. Apart from
PAC, six RAF companies are posted. I'm going to ask for more forces," he says.

In Saharanpur, old-timers love to talk about Baba Lal Das and Shah Haroon
Chisti, medieval saints from different religions whose friendship is worth an
Amar Chitra Katha special. The town needs all that and much more to heal and
restore.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             702 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            August 23, 2014 Saturday
                                  Pune Edition

Riot-hit Saharanpur prays for calm as bypoll looms

BYLINE: Avijit.Ghosh@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 663 words


The riots happened nearly four weeks ago.Like a sharp burst of acid rain, it
corroded Saharanpur claiming three lives and snatching hundreds of livelihoods.
Now, as the western UP town hobbles back to normal, a fresh battle between
memory and forgetting gets underway . The riot-scarred town is gearing up for an
assembly bypoll on September 13 and voters are wary that election speeches could
inflame passions, adversely affecting the brittle social fabric slowly on the
mend.

"Politicians polarize people. Elections give them an opportunity to do it again.
After the riots, there's unease and fear, although the Rapid Action Force
presence creates a sense of security", says Manu Gupta, dean of students, Jain
Degree College. School principal Anita Kanwar says people are awaiting the polls
with a prayer on their lips."We hope it passes off peacefully," she says.

Filing of nomination began on Wednesday . Samajwadi Party has announced its
candidate. BSP isn't contesting. Congress and BJP are expected to name their
nominees on Saturday. The last day for filing nomination is August 27.

The Saharanpur Nagar assembly seat fell vacant after MLA Raghav Lakhanpal of BJP
contested the 2014 LS polls and overcame Congress' Imran Masood by over 65,000
votes. Lakhanpal won the assembly seat in 2012 despite Mulayam Singh Yadav's SP
sweeping the state.

Riots are rare in Saharanpur. The last was in 1992 after the Babri Masjid
demolition.

Although the Muzaffarnagar riots last September scorched most of western UP,
mildmannered Saharanpur kept its calm.

But the July 26 riots over a land dispute between Sikhs and Muslims drove
communities apart. Accused No 1 in the riot FIR is Moharram Ali aka Pappu, a
former BSP councilor. Shortly after the riots, Hindi newspapers frontpaged a
photo showing him with top SP leaders, including CM Akhilesh Yadav. The
photograph had been posted on the Facebook home page of Sanjay Garg, SP
candidate for the forthcoming poll. Garg contested the 2012 assembly election on
a BSP ticket.

Underlining his poll agenda, the SP candidate talks of shanti (peace),
bhaichara(brotherhood)

and vikas (development). He blames BJP for magnifying small incidents and making
political capital out of riots."At a ceremony following businessman Harish
Kochar's death in the riot, a BJP leader said: Tum Pakistan se ujad kar aaye
thhe. Yahan se ujad kar kahan jaoge. Isn't this inciting people," asks Garg.

Moharram Ali is known to have campaigned for Congress during the 2014 LS
polls.Masood, an important Congress leader here, whose controversial "boti boti"
remark

on Narendra Modi, earned him instant headlines, said: "I can neither confirm nor
deny if he was in Congress. I can say for sure that nobody has the right to
instigate riots."

Masood too promises to keep his campaign sober."BJP will do what it does
best.But we'll keep the peace," he says. At least on one occasion, Masood walked
the talk.Transporter Moksh Bir Singh recalls last year Masood played peacemaker
when a Muslim woman died under a Kanwariya trolley .

At the moment, there's a rush to become BJP's Saharanpur Nagar candidate. Party
district president Manveer Singh says he's received 64 applications for the job.
The party campaign, he insists, will focus on the absence of law and order and
electric

ity shortage. " As for the riots, video footage is available for all to see. The
government doesn't want to act against the real rioters," he says.

Despite all parties talking harmony , a mismatch between words and deeds cannot
be ruled out, reason why Saharanpur's new DM Inderbir Singh Yadav is taking no
chances. "We had a video conference with the Election Commission. Apart from
PAC, six RAF companies are posted. I'm going to ask for more forces," he says.

In Saharanpur, old-timers love to talk about Baba Lal Das and Shah Haroon
Chisti, medieval saints from different religions whose friendship is worth an
Amar Chitra Katha special. The town needs all that and much more to heal and
restore.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             703 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 15, 1996 Thursday

TELEVISION  THE RIOT AT CHRISTIE PITS

BYLINE: BY CHRISTOPHER HARRIS

SECTION: THE ARTS: TELEVISION; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: Toronto


Toronto's history of racismA documentary on a 1933 race riot delvesinto an
uncomfortable time in the city's past.

Arts Reporter

NO Jews or dogs allowed.

Once upon a time, in Toronto "the Good," signs carrying such stinging
declarations were far from uncommon outside the city's clubs and golf courses.

Canada was a blandly racist place in 1933 -- the year of the city's biggest race
riot -- and the burgeoning city of Toronto still smugly thought of itself as
White, Anglo-Saxon and Protestant.

Sixty or so years later, the racists are fewer and their racism more subtle --
and the racial mix of the city is considerably more diverse: according to The
Riot at Christie Pits, a documentary that premieres tonight on the CanWest
Global System, Toronto now has "120 distinct cultures" and its citizens speak
more than 100 languages.

But in 1933, the city was more than 80-per-cent WASP and the Orange Day Parade
remained the biggest event on the summer calendar. Waves of non-WASP immigrants
had been pouring in for years, with Jews and Italians the most predominant
minorities. Conflict was probably inevitable, especially since the Depression
was in full swing, and one-third of the city's work force was unemployed. What
made the mounting tension especially nasty was an event thousands of kilometres
away -- the rise to power in Germany of Adolf Hitler.

The summer was marked by a series of marches and demonstrations for various
causes, including several anti-Nazi rallies. But in the east-end Beaches
neighbourhood (94-per-cent WASP), a group of swaggering young toughs formed a
"Swastika Club" aimed at intimidating Jewish families and other "undesirables"
who flocked to the lakefront on sunny weekends. Fights and small-scale riots
flared around the city as the hot summer wore on.

Finally, on Aug. 16, at a ballpark in Christie Pits in central Toronto, the
tension erupted in a full-scale riot. During a playoff game between a Catholic
team and a largely Jewish baseball squad, a group of bystanders unfurled a huge
swastika -- and the fighting began, with Jews and Italians uniting against gangs
of WASP youths. The riot, which rumbled on for more than eight hours, involved
about 10,000 people. No one was killed, but many were hurt. In the riot's wake,
the city belatedly cracked down on swastikas, Nazi salutes and other overt
displays of racism.

The Riot at Christie Pits has been in the works for 13 years. Toronto filmmakers
Ira Levy and Peter Williamson began labouring on it in the early 1980s, and in
1986 acquired rights to the new book of that name by Cyril H. Levitt and William
Shaffir.

Since then, Levy, Williamson and their company, Breakthrough Films and
Television, have hit the jackpot of children's TV with the international success
of their preschool series Dudley the Dragon. But it took them years of
persistence to gather the financing to shoot The Riot at Christie Pits.

It would be pleasing to report that the result of such a clear labour of love is
a brilliantly executed documentary. Unfortunately, although it has lots of
merit, the one-hour program was clearly shot on such a measly budget that the
film is seldom able to do justice to its subject.

The film's greatest contribution is as oral history. Levy and Williamson have
filmed the reminiscences of a number of witnesses, including the legendary
Toronto Star reporter Jocko Thomas (already a newsroom veteran on the night of
the riot, which was his 20th birthday), and several participants in the riot,
including Johnny Lombardi (now a multicultural broadcasting mogul), former
boxers Sammy Luftspring and Frank Genovese and photographer Joe Black.

The filmmakers have also marshalled extensive archival film footage and still
photography. They have also dramatized several sequences, attempting to bring to
life the comments and observations of a number of players -- including the city
mayor and police chief -- using such actors as Eric Peterson and Patrick
McKenna. (Unfortunately, the filmmakers decided to "antique" their
dramatizations by bathing them in a cloying sepia.)

Ideally, any program titled The Riot at Christie Pits should culminate in a
grandly choreographed re-creation of the battle, with hundreds of extras bashing
each other in Christie Pits and the surrounding neighbourhoods. Alas, the
dramatization is so anemic that it undercuts the entire documentary. The
narrator may be telling you that the event changed the face of Toronto, but when
you see only eight or nine people grappling with each other -- and not a single
moment when the camera pulls back for a wider picture -- the re-creation
inevitably looks stiff and artificial.

Still, Levy and Williamson deserve high praise for committing the 1933 race riot
to film, pulling a significant historical blot out of the shadows and thrusting
it into the light of prime-time TV. And with increasing signs that racism is on
the rebound, such a pointed reminder of the ugliness of intolerance -- and the
Canadian tendency toward complacency -- comes none too soon.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             704 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

Riots cost taxpayer at least £133m, MPs told

BYLINE: Sandra Lavilleguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 575 words

ABSTRACT

Bill for policing and compensation for businesses hit by violence emerges as
home affairs select committee investigates riots

FULL TEXT

The riots in England will cost the taxpayer more than £133m in policing and
compensation for businesses hit by the violence, the home affairs select
committee has been told.

In evidence from Boris Johnson, the London mayor, the acting Metropolitan police
commissioner, Tim Godwin, and Sir Hugh Orde, the chairman of the Association of
Chief Police Officers, the scale and cost of the August rioting has begun to
emerge.

To date 100 individuals have applied for compensation to the Metropolitan Police
Authority under the Riot Damages Act, totalling £9.3m in claims, a figure that
is likely to increase.

In addition, the policing costs for the Metropolitan force for mutual aid,
overtime and staffing are £74m for the four days of disorder, Godwin told the
committee, which was taking its first evidence session on the English riots.

Orde in his evidence said the final amount for police forces across the country
had not yet been finalised but so far the estimated cost of the riots for forces
outside London was £50m - which was spent on mutual aid to provide support as
the disorder spread on an unprecedented scale.

Triggered by the fatal shooting by police of Mark Duggan in Tottenham, north
London, the riots are now the subject of several inquiries, including internal
assessments at the Met. The costs include the bill for the ongoing police
investigation, which has resulted in nearly 2,000 arrests.

Assistant commissioner Lynne Owens told the committee that 500 officers were
working on the inquiry and there was still 20,000 hours of CCTV footage to view.

The committee was told that Owens is evaluating the local management response to
the events in the immediate aftermath of Duggan's death, particularly the events
outside the police station on Saturday night when the dead man's family gathered
in the hope of speaking to a senior officer. They had already been left to find
out about his death from a national news report rather than hearing of it from
the police.

Godwin told the committee the Met had apologised to the family for the failure
to inform them about Duggan's death, and the Owens review would investigate
these and other issues further.

But Godwin said there were issues about the relationship between the
Metropolitan police and the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) that
needed to be examined - referring to an apparent blurring of roles as to who has
the duty to inform a family in a police fatal shooting.

But in written evidence to the committee, the IPCC said it was "never the
responsibility of the IPCC" to inform the next of kin of a death of a relation.

Deborah Glass, deputy commissioner for the IPCC, told the committee the watchdog
was considering a separate investigation into why the Duggan family only heard
about the death of their son when the news was broadcast on national television.
But a decision on that had yet to be finalised.

Glass was pressed as to whether her investigators had interviewed the CO19
officers involved in the fatal shooting. After refusing to give a clear answer
she was reprimanded by the chairman, Keith Vaz. Glass would only say that her
investigators now had "accounts" from the officers about the events of the
shooting.

She told the committee it would take four to six months before the IPCC inquiry
into the death was completed.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             705 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                          November 9, 2000, Thursday,

It's that title-talk time of the year;
 South Portland faces a familiar task -- playing in another Western Maine Class
A football final.

BYLINE: TOM CHARD Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: SOUTH PORTLAND


Nick Sobey remembers being a young, inexperienced lineman for South Portland not
too long ago and getting help from Mike Leconte, one of the team's top players.
Now Sobey is the veteran who offers the advice.

Players helping players. That's part of the winning formula that has made South
Portland the dominant Western Maine Class A football team of the past decade.

With the start of a new decade and century, the Riots are back where they always
seem to be, playing for a regional title. When South Portland trots onto the
field Saturday to play Massabesic in Waterboro for the Western Maine title, it
will be the Riots' seventh straight regional final.

For the Riots, a regional title has led to a state title. South Portland won the
state title last year as well as in 1995 and '96. The Riots won their first
state crown under the current playoff system in1992. They didn't reach the
regional final in 1993 but have been in all of them since, including overtime
losses in 1997 and '98 .

Sobey, a senior tackle, is the biggest Riot at 6-foot-4 and 245 pounds. He's
also the team's best lineman and a strong team leader. When the season began,
the biggest question mark facing the Riots was their line. Would it develop
quickly enough to enable South Portland to advance in the playoffs? After all,
Sobey and center Frank Vickerson were the only returning starters in the
offensive line.

Sobey saw this as an opportunity to help out the newcomers so they could develop
faster and continue the tradition of strong-blocking Riot lines.

"A big part of line play is experience and learning how to deal with the guy
across from you," said Sobey. "I like to help the underclassmen as much as
possible. Mike Leconte helped me when I was new. I just want to see someone be
the best they can be."

Leconte was an all-state linemen who graduated last June. He received a
scholarship at the University of Maine.

One teammate Sobey has helped is junior James Redstone, the other starting
tackle. Redstone has improved steadily to become one of the team's most
consistent players on offense and defense over the past month. Redstone credits
Sobey with helping him improve.

"If you need some help on the way a particular block is made or a move, Nick is
more than willing to help out. He's helped me a lot with my technique," said
Redstone.

With the exception of Sobey, South Portland's line is smaller than that of most
opponents. Once again Saturday, the Riots will be going up against a much bigger
line.

Outstanding technique and knowledge of blocking assignments usually give the
smaller Riots the edge. The Riots are also very athletic. Sobey pointed to a
couple of additional factors.

"We've had a lot of hard work and dedication. Success comes from that," he said.

The Riots are one game from returning to the state final, but it won't be easy
getting there. Massabesic was the preseason favorite and beat South Portland
14-12 on Sept. 22 at Waterboro. Riots Coach John Wolfgram said the Mustangs have
to be considered the favorite because of their explosiveness.

"They can hit a home run every time they touch the ball," said Wolfgram.

Sobey said South Portland's experience and discipline are factors.

"The experience from last year's playoffs has definitely helped us. Going into
the playoffs, we know what it takes to win. In big games, you can't let your
emotions get the best of you. You play as hard as you can for every play." he
said.

The first game against Massabesic gave South Portland confidence.

"We're definitely going to have to take it to them and play hard-nosed football
like we did the last time," said Sobey.

Staff Writer Tom Chard can be contacted at 791-6419 or at:

tchard@pressherald.com


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: color;

Staff photo by Gordon Chibroski;

 South Portland senior tackle Nick Sobey, right, is carrying on a tradition of
leadership that has helped the defending-champion Red Riots become a perennial
Class A football power.

                 Copyright 2000 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                             706 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 3 1986, Thursday

Leading Article: Why they rioted / Scotland Yard report on the Brixton and
Tottenham riots

SECTION: Issue 62499.

LENGTH: 800 words


Scotland Yard's detailed report of last year's riots in Brixton and Tottenham is
a candid and thorough account both of how the riots occurred and how the police
responded to them. It must therefore be of the greatest interest since the riots
showed a breakdown of public order and a hostility to the police horrifying even
by the standards of recent years.

During the course of the disturbances, two people were killed, 348 police
officers were injured, and 33 members of the public also suffered injuries. But
those statistics understate the real disorder. It is a fortunate chance that
more people were not killed when the weapons employed by rioters included petrol
bombs, axes, machetes and even a sledgehammer.


The report strongly hints that the police handled the Brixton outbreak more
successfully than they did the more serious disturbances in Tottenham. Having
had the experience of the 1981 riots, the Brixton police were better trained and
reacted to reports of disorder quickly and shrewdly.

But it is fair to add that the Tottenham police faced a more difficult and
unfamiliar problem. They were met by attacks amounting almost to urban guerrilla
warfare in a tower block housing development which, once occupied by rioters,
had either to be recaptured by the use of considerable force or abandoned to
them. They had not been trained in such techniques as taking a tower block from
rioters throwing petrol bombs. For some time, therefore, the police tactics were
defensive and they sheltered from petrol bombs behind plastic riot shields.

Two questions are provoked by the report. Why did the riots, especially that in
Tottenham, occur? And how can such disturbances be more adequately handled in
future? The report describes how in the previous months there had been a
cumulative and horrifying breakdown of public order on the Broadwater estate in
which attacks on police were not merely common but contemptuously defiant, and
in which an almost eighteenth-century atmosphere of open criminality prevailed.
This it puts down to the attempts of drug dealers and other criminals to protect
their operations from scrutiny and harassment.

That might well provide a partial explanation. But it cannot account either for
the concentration on attacking police officers as such in the period leading up
to the riots, or for the organised production of petrol bombs and the
well-drilled tactics of the rioters once the balloon had gone up. It is plain
that the riot was an attack on the police because they were the symbols of a law
and order which were rejected by the rioters. The riot was essentially an
anti-police riot - and nothing is gained by glossing over that fact.

The confident hostility of the rioters, however, seems to have met with
uncertainty on the part of the police who doubtless recalled the criticism of
heavyhanded police tactics in the 1981 riots. 'With the benefit of hindsight,'
they concede, 'police might have forestalled the disorder by the immediate
deployment of uniformed officers. ' But, then again, 'such deployment might also
have been considered by some people to be insensitive or provocative. '

It was this nervousness - not an unfounded one in a society that has almost
developed a taste for uncovering 'police brutality' - that was the ultimate
psychological explanation for the initial failure of police tactics in
Tottenham. Lack of the right training and the unfamiliar nature of the problem
played their parts. So did the lack of the right equipment. But they were
secondary to the real problem that the police did not want to look like
villains.

This psychology, though it is reflected in the argument of the report, does not
seem to have influenced its proposals. These are practical and hard-headed. In
response to some of the complaints of the police officers involved, long
truncheons and short riots shield (which, in combination, enable police officers
to advance against a hostile mob) will be provided in future. Better
communications - meaning more effective police radios rather than coffee with
community leaders - are on the agenda. And, as a last resort against
uncontrollable mob violence which is putting innocent life at risk, CS gas and
rubber bullets will be available.

These are recommendations to be accepted with regret - but accepted nonetheless.
To refuse them would demonstrate the same unwillingness to enforce the law in
hard circumstances which led to the prolonged carnival of violence on the
Broadwater estate. The Home Secretary is right to endorse them. But they will
prove valueless unless the police recover their confidence that public support
will normally be forthcoming when they face serious urban riots. And that is
something which the public itself must provide.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited


                             707 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Police call for more charges in Cup riot

BYLINE: John Colebourn, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 457  words

DATELINE: Vancouver


Vancouver police are recommending charges against 20 more people they believe
broke the law in the riots that followed last summer's Stanley Cup playoff
final.

Investigators say they are continuing to use the extensive video footage of the
game's aftermath to track down those they allege committed criminal acts the
night of the Stanley Cup riot.

The 20 new names bring the number of suspected rioters to 100.

Vancouver police Insp. Les Yeo said the Integrated Riot Investigation Team
recommended 63 criminal charges against the latest group of 20.

So far, 30 people have been charged - with a total of 78 criminal offences - and
the Crown has said it expects to approve charges against 30 others by the end of
the month.

"We've reached a milestone for our team," Yeo said. "The first 100 - and as we
said all along, we are not going to give up."

Yeo said they anticipate more charges in the near future.

"Investigators are working on the fourth round and it won't be long," he said. A
total of 278 criminal charges have been recommended to the Crown.

And in the case of the first batch of people charged, Yeo said police are seeing
the same faces pop up on video at different locations during the June 15 riot.

"We are seeing people committing multiple offences," he said.

So far, Yeo said 82 per cent of riot suspects are from outside Vancouver.

Vancouver police will be adding "hundreds more" pictures of riot suspects to the
department's website.

The names of the suspects are not being released until the Crown approves the
charges. But some snapshots of those involved are being given out.

In one case, police believe a 15-year-old is responsible for hitting a police
cruiser with a metal fence. They say he helped flip over another vehicle and
then stole some property from the trunk. He has no criminal record and could
face mischief, theft and riot charges.

Another suspect from Surrey, B.C., a university student, is seen flicking lit
cigarettes at a pool of gas, police said. He joined others in flipping a vehicle
and was seen lighting papers and throwing them into the cab of another truck.

In a third case, police allege a man went around punching people in the face. He
was also seen smashing a storefront window with a hockey stick. Police said he
is well known to them and is expected to face riot, assault and mischief
charges.

Meanwhile, the first person to plead guilty in the riot, Ryan Dickinson, was in
court with his lawyer Tuesday, who plans to argue against having Dickinson's
sentencing hearing broadcast on television. The provincial government wants all
riot-related cases televised, but that has yet to be approved.

He pleaded guilty to participating in a riot and breach of recognizance and has
been in custody since mid-December.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             708 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            April 8, 2015 Wednesday

How India wasted three Bharat Ratnas

LENGTH: 914 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, April 8 -- On March 27, 2015 President of India, Pranab Mukherjee
presented Bharat Ratna to former Prime Minister and one of the founding leader
of BJP Atal Bihari Vajpayee.

From Right Wing supporters to liberals almost everyone applauded the gesture of
the NDA government to confer Atal Bihar Vajpayee with Country's highest civilian
award, Bharat Ratna. Also, I saw many staunch congress supporters tweeting
against Bharta Ratna to former PM. Congress supporters attacked NDA government
over Bharat Ratna to ABV is like "Foot in the mouth moment" in my opinion, after
congress government's own act of awarding Bharat Ratna to Indira Gandhi and
Rajeev Gandhi in the past.

The most sickening part is to see liberal terming Atal Bihari Vajpayee a great
statesman and somehow liberal leader in BJP party. This shows the utter mindset
of pseudo liberals in the country. ABV was a RSS man from his childhood. His
activities during freedom struggle and Quit India movement has always been
questioned. In the past Subramanian Swamy had labelled him as "British Agent"
during Quit India Movement. Let's not talk about this.

On December 5, 1992 in a speech in Lucknow, He said" Zameen ko samtal karna
padega, baithne layaq banana padega" referring to the structure of Babri Mosque.
Also, He closed his eyes during post Godhra Riots in Gujarat, at a time as a PM
he could have prevented lot of damage. Contrary to that, in his speech in Goa on
April 12, 2002, He went on saying "Who lit the fire? Muslims cannot co-exist
with non-Muslims." I wish someone would have told him the basic human
responsibility that violence cannot be answered by violence.

The deadliest riot of Ahmadabad in 1969 has occurred during congress rule. There
were speculations at that time that the riot was engineered to discredit the
then Chief Minister Hitendra Desai who was a supporter of Murarji Desai instead
of Indira Gandhi the Prime Minister of India at that time, which hints that just
for political gain she could have engineered massacre of hundreds of innocents
and loss of infrastructure and property of the country.

The emergency imposition by the then President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmad by the
request of Indira Gandhi from June 25, 1975 to March 21, 1977 was the black spot
In India's history. Her ruthless behavior was not that of a great leader (Durga)
but of a shallow and egoistic individual during the emergency period. She had
ruled the country by decree during the emergency period, No good work of Mrs.
Gandhi can justify the undemocratic behavior of her.

Moradabad riots of August 1980 had happened under congress government, V.P Singh
was the Chief Minister of UP and Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister of the
Country. It was one of the worst riot in the history of independent India in
which Muslims were massacred by PAC personnel. Indira Gandhi never tried to give
justice to the victims. As the Prime Minister of the country Indira Gandhi was
equally responsible for the Nellie pogrom of innocent Muslims in which we blame
ABV for inciting the mobs.

The case of Rajiv Gandhi is nothing sort of mystery, he was a confused man as a
leader who had been served the post of PM without any experience in the
politics. The anti-Sikh riots of 1984 in Delhi in which thousands were massacred
mercilessly after Indira Gandhi's assassination is a fine example of the
hollowness of India's secularism and its leaders when it comes to the safety of
minorities in the country. The disgusting remark of Rajiv Gandhi as "when big
tree falls, the earth shakes" in 1984 was not less vile than Atal Bihari
Vajpayee's statements of Lucknow and Goa. Exonerating Rajeev Gandhi of anti-Sikh
riots of 1984 is an insult to the victims. Also, the Meerut riots of 1987 in
which Muslim youths were handpicked in Hashimpura by PAC personnel and their
cold blood murder had happened under Rajiv Gandhi as Prime Minister of India in
which the victims never got justice by the Indian government.

The 1989 Bhagalpur riots against Muslims in Bihar is another massacre of Muslims
under Congress rule in state and center. The visit of Rajiv Gandhi to Bhagalpur
after eruption of riots and his return on the demand of rioters was the most
cowardice act he had ever taken. After Rajiv Gandhi's decision to not visit the
riot hit area in Bhagalpur after protest of the rioters has boosted the morals
of the mobs which led to the massacre of even more innocent Muslims along with
loot and arson of Muslim properties. Was the power of PM so little that he acted
as directed by rioting mobs or he had acted intentionally in the favor of mobs?
Well, he had tendency to act in the favor of majorities, whether 1984 riots,
Babri Masjid issue, Bhagalpur issue or 1987 Meerut rots. Terming Rajeev Gandhi
as a secular leader would be an insult to the victims of all the communal
violence under his tenure.

If Jawaharlal Nehru were alive, he would be as ashamed of Babri demolition, 2002
anti-Muslim pogrom and recent Muzaffarnagar riots as the riots which had
occurred under the nose of Indira and Rajiv Gandhi in addition with emergency
imposition by Indira Gandhi on the nation.

So, let the respective government award Bharat Ratna to whoever they want, there
is no point of outrage over it which no longer holds the its true glory.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             709 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London Riots: Memories of Broadwater Farm evoked

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 196 words


For community leaders and residents in Haringey, Saturday's riots in Tottenham
evoked painful memories of the Broadwater Farm riots in October 1985.



They were also sparked by the death of a Tottenham resident - Cynthia Jarrett,
an African-Caribbean woman, who died from heart failure during a police search
of her home. During riots the next day,  Muswell Hill police officer PC Keith
Blakelock was murdered on the Broadwater Farm Estate. He had been trying to
protect firefighters who had come under attack.

At the time, there were claims of racism in the police and that young,
particularly black youths were often unfairly targeted by police.

Since the Broadwater Farm riots, Haringey Police has worked tirelessly with
community leaders to try to build positive relations.

For some, Saturday's riots were a sign that the relationship had broken down.
But community leaders have been quick to condemn the violence and urge calm.

Tottenham MP David Lammy said: "The scenes currently taking place in our
community are not representative of the vast majority of people in Tottenham.
Those who remember the destructive conflicts of the past will be determined not
to go back to them."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             710 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

London Riots: Memories of Broadwater Farm evoked

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 196 words


For community leaders and residents in Haringey, Saturday's riots in Tottenham
evoked painful memories of the Broadwater Farm riots in October 1985.



They were also sparked by the death of a Tottenham resident - Cynthia Jarrett,
an African-Caribbean woman, who died from heart failure during a police search
of her home. During riots the next day,  Muswell Hill police officer PC Keith
Blakelock was murdered on the Broadwater Farm Estate. He had been trying to
protect firefighters who had come under attack.

At the time, there were claims of racism in the police and that young,
particularly black youths were often unfairly targeted by police.

Since the Broadwater Farm riots, Haringey Police has worked tirelessly with
community leaders to try to build positive relations.

For some, Saturday's riots were a sign that the relationship had broken down.
But community leaders have been quick to condemn the violence and urge calm.

Tottenham MP David Lammy said: "The scenes currently taking place in our
community are not representative of the vast majority of people in Tottenham.
Those who remember the destructive conflicts of the past will be determined not
to go back to them."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             711 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            August 23, 2014 Saturday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Riot-hit Saharanpur prays for calm as bypoll looms

BYLINE: Avijit.Ghosh@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION UP ON THE BOIL

LENGTH: 661 words


The riots happened nearly four weeks ago.Like a sharp burst of acid rain, it
corroded Saharanpur claiming three lives and snatching hundreds of livelihoods.
Now, as the western UP town hobbles back to normal, a fresh battle between
memory and forgetting gets underway . The riot-scarred own is gearing up for an
assembly bypoll on September 13 and voters are wary that election speeches could
inflame passions, adversely affecting the brittle social fabric slowly on the
mend.

"Politicians polarize people. Elections give them an opportunity to do it again.
After he riots, there's unease and fear, although the Rapid Ac ion Force
presence creates a sense of security", says Manu Gupta, dean of students, Jain
Degree College. School principal Anita Kanwar says people are awaiting the polls
with a prayer on their lips."We hope it passes off peacefully ," she says.

Filing of nomination began on Wednesday. Sama wadi Party has announced ts
candidate. BSP isn't con esting. Congress and BJP are expected to name their
nominees on Saturday. The ast day for filing nominations August 27.

The Saharanpur Nagar assembly seat fell vacant af er MLA Raghav Lakhanpal of BJP
contested the 2014 LS polls and overcame Congress' mran Masood by over 65,000
votes. Lakhanpal won the assembly seat in 2012 despite Mulayam Singh Yadav's SP
sweeping the state.

Riots are rare in Saharanpur. The last was in 1992 after he Babri Masjid
demolition.

Although the Muzaffarnagar riots last September scorched most of western UP,
mildmannered Saharanpur kept its calm.

But the July 26 riots over a land dispute between Sikhs and Muslims drove
communities apart. Accused No 1 in the riot FIR is Moharram Ali aka Pappu, a
former BSP councilor. Shortly after the riots, Hindi newspapers frontpaged a
photo showing him with top SP leaders, including CM Akhilesh Yadav. The
photograph had been posted on the Facebook home page of Sanjay Garg, SP
candidate for the forthcoming poll. Garg contested the 2012 assembly election on
a BSP ticket.

Underlining his poll agenda, the SP candidate talks of shanti (peace),
bhaichara(brotherhood)

and vikas (development). He blames BJP for magnifying small incidents and making
political capital out of riots."At a ceremony following businessman Harish
Kochar's death in the riot, a BJP leader said: Tum Pakistan se ujad kar aaye
thhe. Yahan se ujad kar kahan jaoge. Isn't this inciting people," asks Garg.

Moharram Ali is known to have campaigned for Congress during the 2014 LS
polls.Masood, an important Congress leader here, whose controversial "boti boti"
remark

on Narendra Modi, earned him instant headlines, said: "I can neither confirm nor
deny if he was in Congress. I can say for sure that nobody has the right to
instigate riots."

Masood too promises to keep his campaign sober."BJP will do what it does
best.But we'll keep the peace," he says. At least on one occasion, Masood walked
the talk.Transporter Moksh Bir Singh recalls last year Masood played peacemaker
when a Muslim woman died under a Kanwariya trolley.

At the moment, there's a rush to become BJP's Saharanpur Nagar candidate. Party
district president Manveer Singh says he's received 64 applications for the job.
The party campaign, he insists, will focus on the absence of law and order and
electric

ity shortage. " As for the riots, video footage is available for all to see. The
government doesn't want to act against the real rioters," he says.

Despite all parties talking harmony, a mismatch between words and deeds cannot
be ruled out, reason why Saharanpur's new DM Inderbir Singh Yadav is taking no
chances. "We had a video conference with the Election Commission. Apart from
PAC, six RAF companies are posted. I'm going to ask for more forces," he says.

In Saharanpur, old-timers love to talk about Baba Lal Das and Shah Haroon
Chisti, medieval saints from different religions whose friendship is worth an
Amar Chitra Katha special. The town needs all that and much more to heal and
restore.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             712 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday

EDITORIAL: Riot shows need for corrections changes

BYLINE: Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 598 words


Aug. 15--A prison riot last weekend at a California state prison in Chino left
250 inmates injured after more than 11 hours of fighting, and it can carry a
vital lesson for Kentucky.

The riot came just days after a panel of federal judges ordered the state to
reduce its inmate population of 150,000 by more than 40,000 inmates within two
years. At the time of the riot, the Chino prison held about 5,900 inmates --
nearly twice its capacity.

Kentucky might seem far removed from the Chino riot, which officials attributed
to overcrowding coupled with ongoing racial tensions. The riot occurred
thousands of miles away and involved a prison system housing seven times the
number of inmates held by Kentucky.

But a 2008 study by the Pew Center on the States found that Kentucky had the
fastest-growing prison population, with a 12 percent jump in 2007.

Kentucky houses more than 21,000 inmates and is on track to top 30,000 within 10
years.

The main driver behind the rising prison population nationwide -- with one out
of every 100 people now behind bars -- was not from a rise in crime but rather
stricter criminal policies and new prison sentence enhancements, the Pew study
found. The use of imprisonment to punish probation and parole offenders has
added to the growing prison populations nationwide.

For years, Kentucky had emphasized strengthening criminal penalties and creating
new felony crimes over working to reduce recidivism, and the results are seen in
the state's nation-leading increase in prison population. Lawmakers are now
taking the state in a new direction.

Since the Pew study, Kentucky has taken several steps to help stem the growth of
its prison population, and the rising share of the state's budget it takes to
keep people locked up. In 2008, the state instituted a parole-credit program
that has led to the release of thousands of inmates, excluding violent criminals
and sex offenders. The passage of Senate Bill 4 this year will divert offenders
to substance abuse treatment before trial to try to get at the roots of the
crimes rather than solely punishing the criminal.

The General Assembly began a study of the state's criminal code in 2008, and
that study is continuing throughout the interim this year with an eye on a
proposal for changes when the legislature reconvenes in January. It's the first
comprehensive look at the state's system of criminal laws that lawmakers have
taken in decades, and changes will take time to enact.

Last week, Kentucky Chamber of Commerce President David Adkisson proposed that
the state look at expanding its use of privately run prisons as a way to reduce
costs. While that direction might help reduce the $500 million annual price tag
for corrections in Kentucky, lowering the number of inmates going forward will
have the largest impact on spending, whether that money's spent at state prisons
or private facilities.

Kentucky is on the right track to regain control of its booming prison
population, and lawmakers should follow through with plans to target recidivism
and increase substance abuse treatment. If they need a reminder of why this is
important, they need only look west to Chino.

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090815-OW-EDITORIAL-Riot-shows-need-for-corrections-changes-0815

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2009 Messenger-Inquirer


                             713 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           November 1, 2014 Saturday

AAP to Centre: Notify riot SIT

LENGTH: 717  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


A day after the Central government announced an additional compensation of Rs 5
lakh for the kin of victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, the AAP on Friday
demanded that the Centre should notify a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to
probe the riots. The party is also planning to hold a meeting in Hari Nagar on
Saturday to push for the same.

While stating that the announcement was "a good step", the AAP said the measure
was still not enough to bring justice to the victims' families. "The (former)
AAP government of Delhi had recommended setting up an SIT to probe the 1984
anti-Sikh riots. The Delhi Cabinet had sent its decision to the
Lieutenant-Governor on January 30. Nine months have passed and it is surprising
that the decision is still pending," the party said. It demanded that the Centre
notify the SIT "without any further delay".

During its 49-day government, the AAP had recommended setting up the SIT to
re-investigate the FIRs filed in cases related to the 1984 riots, which had been
closed as untraced. The party had also suggested that FIRs that had not been
registered earlier be registered afresh.

According to the AAP, the SIT would also inquire into allegations of destruction
of evidence and file charge-sheets where sufficient evidence was available. It
was proposed that the SIT be directed to complete the task within two years.

Meanwhile, the party said national convenor Arvind Kejriwal would address a
public meeting in the memory of riot victims at Hari Nagar on Saturday. "The aim
of the meeting is to encourage participation of citizens to secure justice for
the victims and their families," the AAP said.

'Is Rs 5 lakh the price of our suffering?'

Demanding action against perpetrators of the 1984 riots in which over 2,000
Sikhs were killed, several Sikh groups held protests at Jantar Mantar on
Friday. The protesters submitted a memorandum, calling for the constitution of
an SIT to probe the cases, take action against perpetrators, and provide
adequate compensation and employment for children of victims.

Those present in Jantar Mantar were of the opinion that the relief offered by
the Modi government on Thursday "was a mockery of their suffering for over 30
years".

However, political leaders such as Manjinder Singh Sirsa of the Shiromani Akali
Dal (SAD), who met the protesters, said there was hope from the present
government.

The protests began at 11 am with 500-odd protesters, many of whom had come from
Mohali and Patiala in Punjab.

The memorandum by the All India Riot Victims group demanded the constitution of
an SIT, under the chairmanship of a Supreme Court judge, to probe the riots;
action against Congress leaders Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler; full
compensation to all families of the riot victims; government jobs for all
children of the riot affected; and reservation for children of riot victims for
their education.

The group led by All India Sikh Conference demanded swift action against police
officers who allegedly cremated bodies with petrol and diesel and also for
allegedly submitting a misleading figures on actual deaths.

"Where was the cremation conducted? My husband was dragged outside our house and
burnt alive. The youngest of my three sons was 25 days old. I had nothing left.
Can this Rs 5 lakh bring back my husband? My sons are grown up now and they have
their own families. Do we not need money to survive?" Darshan Kaur, 51, said.

Kaur was a resident of Block 32 in Trilokpuri where nearly 350 Sikhs are
believed to have been slaughtered. She now lives in Raghubir Nagar.

Another protester, Raghubir Singh, said, "We were Congress supporters till the
riots. We felt cheated. My two brothers were burnt alive in front of me and I
couldn't do anything. Compensation is not enough. After 30 years, is Rs 5 lakh
all we get?"

Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, "The BJP government is pro-Sikh. After yesterday's
meeting between Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Modiji, a compensation of Rs 5 lakh was
announced by Rajnath Singh. Money can't compensate for lives, but yes, this is a
positive step. "

While protesters initially planned to march to the PM's residence, police
offered to submit the memorandum on their behalf to the PMO.

As such, the march was called off and 11 people, escorted by police, went to the
PMO where their memorandum was accepted.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             714 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           November 1, 2014 Saturday

AAP to Centre: Notify riot SIT

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 717  words


A day after the Central government announced an additional compensation of Rs 5
lakh for the kin of victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, the AAP on Friday
demanded that the Centre should notify a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to
probe the riots. The party is also planning to hold a meeting in Hari Nagar on
Saturday to push for the same.

While stating that the announcement was "a good step", the AAP said the measure
was still not enough to bring justice to the victims' families. "The (former)
AAP government of Delhi had recommended setting up an SIT to probe the 1984
anti-Sikh riots. The Delhi Cabinet had sent its decision to the
Lieutenant-Governor on January 30. Nine months have passed and it is surprising
that the decision is still pending," the party said. It demanded that the Centre
notify the SIT "without any further delay".

During its 49-day government, the AAP had recommended setting up the SIT to
re-investigate the FIRs filed in cases related to the 1984 riots, which had been
closed as untraced. The party had also suggested that FIRs that had not been
registered earlier be registered afresh.

According to the AAP, the SIT would also inquire into allegations of destruction
of evidence and file charge sheets where sufficient evidence was available. It
was proposed that the SIT be directed to complete the task within two years.

Meanwhile, the party said national convenor Arvind Kejriwal would address a
public meeting in the memory of riot victims at Hari Nagar on Saturday. "The aim
of the meeting is to encourage participation of citizens to secure justice for
the victims and their families," the AAP said.

'Is Rs 5 lakh the price of our suffering?'

Demanding action against perpetrators of the 1984 riots in which over 2,000
Sikhs were killed, several Sikh groups held protests at Jantar Mantar on Friday.
The protesters submitted a memorandum, calling for the constitution of an SIT to
probe the cases, take action against perpetrators, and provide adequate
compensation and employment for children of victims.

Those present in Jantar Mantar were of the opinion that the relief offered by
the Modi government on Thursday "was a mockery of their suffering for over 30
years".

However, political leaders such as Manjinder Singh Sirsa of the Shiromani Akali
Dal (SAD), who met the protesters, said there was hope from the present
government.

The protests began at 11 am with 500-odd protesters, many of whom had come from
Mohali and Patiala in Punjab.

The memorandum by the All India Riot Victims group demanded the constitution of
an SIT, under the chairmanship of a Supreme Court judge, to probe the riots;
action against Congress leaders Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler; full
compensation to all families of the riot victims; government jobs for all
children of the riot affected; and reservation for children of riot victims for
their education.

The group led by All India Sikh Conference demanded swift action against police
officers who allegedly cremated bodies with petrol and diesel and also for
allegedly submitting a misleading figures on actual deaths.

"Where was the cremation conducted? My husband was dragged outside our house and
burnt alive. The youngest of my three sons was 25 days old. I had nothing left.
Can this Rs 5 lakh bring back my husband? My sons are grown up now and they have
their own families. Do we not need money to survive?" Darshan Kaur, 51, said.

Kaur was a resident of Block 32 in Trilokpuri where nearly 350 Sikhs are
believed to have been slaughtered. She now lives in Raghubir Nagar.

Another protester, Raghubir Singh, said, "We were Congress supporters till the
riots. We felt cheated. My two brothers were burnt alive in front of me and I
couldn't do anything. Compensation is not enough. After 30 years, is Rs 5 lakh
all we get?"

Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, "The BJP government is pro-Sikh. After yesterday's
meeting between Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Modiji, a compensation of Rs 5 lakh was
announced by Rajnath Singh. Money can't compensate for lives, but yes, this is a
positive step. "

While protesters initially planned to march to the PM's residence, police
offered to submit the memorandum on their behalf to the PMO.

As such, the march was called off and 11 people, escorted by police, went to the
PMO where their memorandum was accepted.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             715 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 5, 2007 Wednesday

Obituary: Kevin DuBrow: Lead singer of Los Angeles heavy metal group Quiet Riot

BYLINE: Garth Cartwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN OBITUARIES PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 581 words


Kevin DuBrow, lead singer of the American heavy metal group Quiet Riot, has been
found dead aged 52 in his Las Vegas apartment. Quiet Riot enjoyed spectacular,
if brief, success in the US in 1983. In the UK they were regarded with
bemusement: their one huge US hit was Cum on Feel the Noize, a UK chart topper
in 1973 for Slade, the British glam rock band who had failed to achieve any
level of success in the US during their heyday.

DuBrow grew up in Los Angeles and began working as a photographer of rock bands
in the early 1970s. He claimed that photographing Rod Stewart inspired him to
become a singer and his vocal style betrayed the strong influence of British
rock singers.

In 1973 he joined two other Los Angeles teenagers - guitarist Randy Roads and
bassist Kelly Garni - in forming Quiet Riot. Influenced by British rock bands,
the band began playing in Hollywood bars and attracted a strong local following,
but US record labels showed no interest. Eventually signed to a Japanese label,
they recorded their debut album in 1977 and its 1978 follow-up, both issued only
in Japan. In November 1978, Randy Rhoads left Quiet Riot, joining Ozzy Osbourne,
who had just quit Black Sabbath, as lead guitarist. The band disintegrated and
DuBrow began playing concerts as DuBrow.

Osbourne's astonishing solo success transformed Rhoads into a heavy metal guitar
hero, yet he was killed in a bizarre accident while on tour with Osbourne in
1982. His death inspired DuBrow to resurrect Quiet Riot and, with heavy metal
now in the ascendancy, the band quickly won a record deal. In March 1983, Quiet
Riot's first international album, Metal Health, was released.

Fledgling cable channel MTV put the video for Cum on Feel the Noize in heavy
rotation, so sending the single to number five in the US charts. By November of
that year Metal Health was at number one in the Billboard pop charts, rapidly
selling more than 5m copies. Quiet Riot were suddenly the hottest new band in
the US. Yet such success proved ephemeral and the band's 1984 follow-up album
Critical Condition (again featuring a cover of a 1970s Slade hit) sold only 1m.

Many of the usual problems surrounding rock bands now surfaced in Quiet Riot;
egos inflated by copious cocaine use led to members fighting and leaving, and
when 1986's QRIII was a commercial and critical failure, the band fired DuBrow.
He eventually won back the rights to the group name and by the early 1990s was
touring and releasing albums as Quiet Riot. By now the Los Angeles heavy metal
scene that they had helped kickstart was the most profitable (and popular) genre
of rock music and DuBrow was often bitter about Quiet Riot's failure to enjoy
the extended success of the likes of Guns N'Roses.

From there on Quiet Riot began to resemble Spinal Tap (the fictional metal band
of Rob Reiner's 1984 film) as they toured small clubs and encountered disaster:
a bassist committed suicide, DuBrow was sued by a fan for injuries sustained
during a show in 1997, records were issued on independent labels to no interest.
Quiet Riot appeared stuck in what must be seen as rock's purga tory. Officially
splitting in 2003 (only to reform in 2005), they were stuck playing a US club
circuit that tapped into the nostalgia for 1980s "hair bands" (as 1980s Los
Angeles metal bands are often described). DuBrow released a solo album In for
the Kill in 2004 and a new Quiet Riot album, Rehab, in 2006.

Kevin DuBrow, rock singer, born October 29 1955; died November 25 2007

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             716 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday
                                Final_C Edition

8 facing Cup riot charges

BYLINE: Larissa Cahute, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 141 words


The Ministry of Justice has charged eight more people in connection with the
Stanley Cup riot.

The addition-al charges were sworn against five adults and three minors on Aug.
31 in connection with the June 2011 riot in Vancouver.

One minor is charged with taking part in a riot, having their face masked and
two counts of mischief.

Another minor is charged with taking part in a riot and break-and-enter. And the
third minor is charged with taking part in a riot, break-and-enter and mischief.

Brandan Arthur Joseph Drader is facing charges of taking part in a riot.

Jeffery Wilson Chatman, Rhys Michael Kearns and Manvir Singh Khatra are all
facing charges of taking part in a riot and break-and-enter.

And Matthew William Eakin is facing charges of taking part in a riot, two counts
of break-and-enter and four counts of mischief.

lcahute@ theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             717 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Canning Circus riot men fail to win sentence cuts

BYLINE: Rebecca Sherdley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 408 words


TWO men locked up for their part in a riot that brought terror to the streets of
Nottingham have failed to convince top judges that they were too harshly
punished.

Lance Francis, 26, of no fixed address, and Callum Powell, 21, of Jarrow
Gardens, Bulwell, were in a mob that rampaged the streets near Canning Circus.
Homes and businesses were attacked and shops were looted across the country
during the riots of August, 2011.

In Nottingham, a mob petrol-bombed Canning Circus Police Station, while cars
were attacked - some with people in them - and a petrol bomb was thrown at a
bus.

After the incident, the longest sentence was handed to Lance Francis, who was
jailed for 12-and-a-half years for his involvement in the riot.

Nottingham Crown Court had heard he was an "enthusiastic and leading rioter"
involved in throwing at least one petrol bomb at Canning Circus Police Station.

Francis was found guilty of riot, arson with intent to endanger life, perverting
the course of justice, blackmail, harassment and handling stolen goods.

His co-accused, Powell, got five-and-a-half years in a young offenders'
institution for riot.

An officer had to help him when he fell through the roof of a garage during the
disturbance. Yesterday, a top judge, Lady Justice Rafferty, dismissed appeals by
the men to reduce the size of their sentences.

Sitting at the Appeal Court in London, She described the incident in Canning
Circus as a "planned and premeditated" attack, motivated by hatred of the
police.

Officers were inside the station when it was attacked by a mob of
missile-hurling criminals that night, the court heard. About nine petrol bombs
were said to have been thrown by the gang.

The judge said Francis was a "persistent breaker of the law" who had to also be
sentenced for separate offences including blackmail. Powell, who had previous
convictions for robbery and carrying a blade, could not be linked to any of the
petrol bombs, but had shown a "strong animosity" to police and was happy to join
in the attack. "The impact in Nottingham of the rioting may have been less
serious than elsewhere, but nonetheless was still serious," she said.

Their lawyers had argued that the sentences were too long, Powell's because it
did not fit in with sentences imposed on other rioters, and Francis' because the
total created by adding the blackmail term was excessive.

KEEP UP TO DATE Follow the news throughout the day and join the debate online
nottinghampost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Guilty of riot. Lance Francis, far left, and Callum Powell were locked
up for their parts in the Nottingham riots of August 2011.
City disturbances: Canning Circus Police Station is attacked with petrol bombs
during the riots of 2011.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             718 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday

At least 40 die in Mexico prison riot;
The deadly prison riot in northern Mexico started early Sunday morning in a
high-security cell block.

BYLINE: Associated Press

LENGTH: 269 words


A prison riot in northern Mexico left at least 40 people dead early Sunday,
according to a security official.

Nuevo Leon state public security spokesman Jorge Domene Zambrano said the riot
broke out at about 2 a.m. in a high-security section of a prison in the city of
Apodaca outside of the northern industrial city of Monterrey.

A group of inmates in one cell block started to riot and took one of the guards
hostage, Domene said. The riot then spread to a second cell block, and at least
40 people died before authorities regained control of the prison a couple of
hours later.

Families of the prisoners gathered outside the prison Sunday morning, pushing at
the fences and shouting at police to demand word of the victims.

Deadly fights happen periodically in Mexican prisons as gangs and drug cartels
stage jail breaks and battle for control of penitentiaries, often with the
involvement of officials.

Some 31 prisoners died in January in a prison riot in the Gulf coast city of
Altamira in Tamaulipas state, which borders Texas. Another fight in a prison in
the Tamaulipas border city of Matamoros in October killed 20 inmates and injured
12.

In July, a riot at a prison in the border city of Juarez killed 17 inmates.
Mexican authorities detained the director and four guards over that clash.
Surveillance video showed two inmates opening doors to let armed prisoners into
a room where the slain victims were reportedly holding a party.

Twenty-three people were killed in a prison riot in Durango city in 2010, and a
2009 riot in Gomez Palacio, another city in the northern Mexican state of
Durango, killed 19 people.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                             719 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Abbotsford Times (British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Abby chief praises VPD's response to riot

BYLINE: Rochelle Baker, The Times; With a file from the Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456  words


Abbotsford's chief of police is commending the Vancouver Police Department for
its work during the riot that tore through the downtown core following the
Canucks Game 7 loss in the Stanley cup final.

APD Chief Bob Rich, one of the department heads forming the regional Gold
Command in Vancouver that night to allocate resources where they were most
needed, said the VPD quelled the riot quickly.

"Perhaps I'm biased, but I feel people should be proud of police response once
this started," said Rich.

"I appreciate people don't think three hours is quick, but . . . I was impressed
with how calm the riot squads were and how they moved people out of the core."

As the post-riot analysis begins, police have been criticized because live
broadcasts during the melee didn't show police intervening as mobs smashed
windows and set cars alight along the Granville Mall.

Officers' first priority would be people's safety, said Rich.

"The priority was life and limb, including for the rioters. Officers forged
ahead [into the crowd] and did what they could to rescue someone, but when
dealing with property damage, they focused on moving crowds on and gaining
ground."

The officers were faced with overwhelming numbers during the incident, he added.

"You are outnumbered several hundred to one. The first thing officers had to
deal with was backing each other up in a situation where they were completely
overrun."

Police tactics included starting from the north of the city core and pushing the
crowd south and securing ground while doing so.

Officers quelled the riot in half the time despite dealing with double the
number of people they faced in the 1994 Stanley Cup riot, said Rich.

"The 1994 riot lasted six hours and had half the crowd. Once this [2011] riot
began the police response was amazing."

The violence was sparked by a small number of people intent on causing problems,
said Rich.

"They detest and defy authority and act out whenever they have the opportunity.
It's an irregular segment of society but we need to acknowledge it exists . . ."

The small group was bolstered by a large number of bystanders who watched and
recorded events with their cameras and cell phones, said Rich.

Abbotsford sent every available officer, a total of 68 members, to Vancouver
Wednesday to help the VPD, said Rich, who coordinated their response.

"A third of the Abbotsford Police Department was in Vancouver, including six
members on the tactical team [riot squad]."

The VPD is not releasing how many officers it deployed that night, but VPD Chief
Jim Chu has stated how many officers deployed was a decision he made free from
political interference.

Rich said that in Abbotsford, Canucks fans stayed positive, as they have
throughout the series, despite the loss.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Abbotsford Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             720 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 21, 2012 Friday

G2: Film & Music: DEFT PUNK: Clever, committed and courageous, Pussy Riot were
the only band that mattered in 2012. Dorian Lynskey reviews their year in the
spotlight

BYLINE: Dorian Lynskey

SECTION: GUARDIAN FILM AND MUSIC PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1831 words


Depending on how you define it, the most important performance by a rock band in
2012 lasted either less than two minutes or a full nine days. Pussy Riot's
guerrilla rendition of Punk Prayer: Mother of God Drive Putin Away in the
Cathedral of Christ the Saviour, Moscow, on 21 February was brief even by punk
standards, and less striking and significant to non-Russian eyes than the band's
rooftop appearance in Red Square a month earlier. But the vindictive trial that
ensued was a major international media event which revealed both the depth of
the defendants' courage and intelligence and the power of popular music to
illuminate a political situation. At a recent House of Commons event organised
by Kerry McCarthy MP, who attended the trial, the musician and critic John Robb
suggested that the church gig was merely the soundcheck and the trial was the
real show.

Contrary to Putin's sneering remark that "they got what they asked for", Maria
Alyokhina, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova and Yekaterina Samutsevich didn't set out to
get prosecuted. A shrewder, less authoritarian government would have stayed its
hand and let interest in the group peter out instead of breaking a butterfly on
a wheel with a prosecution that reprised the tragedy of Communist show trials as
farce. Once they were granted a platform that they had never sought, the three
women, with admirable clarity and dignity, used it to put their accusers on
trial. "The Russian authorities took a marginal act of arty protest and, through
sheer cruelty, made it into an international cause," wrote Michael Idov, the
editor-in-chief of GQ Russia, adding that coverage of the trial amounted to
"long infomercials against investing in, visiting and generally dealing with
Russia". Tobi Vail, whose early 90s Riot Grrrl band Bikini Kill was one of Pussy
Riot's inspirations, wasn't being too hyperbolic when she called them "The only
band that matters in 2012."

What Pussy Riot understand so keenly is Allen Ginsberg's observation in the
1960s that "national politics was theatre on a vast scale, with scripts, timing,
sound systems. Whose theatre would attract the most customers, whose was a
theatre of ideas that could be gotten across?" Viewed purely as a pop group,
they are faultless: the unforgettable name, whose punchy collision of sex and
violence is a feminised, radicalised take on the Sex Pistols; the uniform of
bright dresses and balaclavas, which makes them both memorable and anonymous;
the terse, splenetic punk racket; the unlicensed occupation of public spaces for
their performances, and their subsequent dissemination on social media. In her
closing statement to the court, Tolokonnikova said: "We were searching for real
sincerity and simplicity, and we found these qualities in the holy foolishness
of punk."

Although their unusually tight post-trial release Putin Lights Up the Fires is
as strong as many Riot Grrrl records, Pussy Riot are, like only a handful of
western bands - Crass, Public Enemy, the Last Poets - political provocateurs
first and musicians second. They make words, image and noise tell the same
story, so that you can see them in action for one minute and still get the
message.

Some seasoned Russia-watchers have grumbled about young women in colourful
balaclavas receiving immeasurably more international attention than other
persecuted dissidents. They might as well complain that rain is wet. Pussy Riot
are clever and committed enough to express themselves in more sober ways if they
wanted, but they chose to exploit the media to the hilt because they know how it
works - in the words of 60s Yippie activist Abbie Hoffman, they "fight through
the jungles of TV". Their fame has not eclipsed other injustices in Russia but
highlighted them, in the tradition of opposition movements strategically
promoting charismatic individuals, from Nelson Mandela to Ai Weiwei, as
synecdoches for an entire cause. For newly curious observers outside Russia,
Pussy

Riot have lifted the curtain on the regime's intolerance.

There is nothing accidental about this and nothing trivial about the women
themselves. We are used to musicians making inspiring protest songs then
fumbling the follow-up as they try to paper over the gaps in their knowledge
with stirring simplifications. Not Pussy Riot. They sprang, in October 2011,
from the anarchist art collective Voina (meaning "war"), with an arsenal of
political theory. The scope of their concerns is broad, from education and
healthcare to feminism, LGBT rights and Russia's culture of conformity. Two of
them were arrested for taking part in Moscow's banned Gay Pride rally last year.
Their concerts, by laying claim to public spaces, are Situationist-inspired acts
of dissent even before a note has been played. It's perhaps misleading to call
them a band. The five who performed in the cathedral (two fled the country to
avoid arrest) are only part of a shifting collective that numbers up to 20.
Tolokonnikova sees their work as "modern art".

Samutsevich told Rolling Stone: "Art has become only more complicated. Now it's
done internationally, and it has great political potential. An artist is a
person who is constantly analysing critical thoughts, always working out an
independent opinion regarding everything. That is why art gives a breath of
fresh air and a different way to protest."

The prosecution depicted them as Satanic hooligans and their defence team,
complained Samutsevich, "made us look like teenage girls that went against Putin
without even understanding why (we were) . . . doing it". But the trio proved
themselves to be calm, courageous, impeccably well-informed women, whose
eloquent statements to the court quoted Fyodor Dostoevsky, Alexander
Solzhenitsyn and Joseph Brodsky. "Compared to the judicial machine, we are
nobodies, and we have lost," said Samutsevich. "On the other hand, we have won .
. . The system cannot conceal the repressive nature of this trial. Once again,
the world sees Russia differently than the way Putin tries to present it at his
daily international meetings." Even some members of Putin's United Russia party
agreed, with one publicly complaining the indictment "makes the country the
laughing stock of the entire world."

The closest US analogue to the Pussy Riot case is the trial of the so-called
"Chicago Seven" for conspiracy to riot at the 1968 Democratic National
Convention. It was likewise feverish, absurd and symbolic of a clash between the
state and a new generation of protesters.

It is only when you pan back from the courtroom and consider the overseas Free
Pussy Riot campaign that the picture becomes more complicated. It quickly became
the celebrity cause du jour. Yoko Ono gave Pussy Riot the Lennon Ono Grant for
Peace award. Paul McCartney wrote them an open letter. Bjork and Patti Smith
dedicated songs to them. Peaches released a song called Free Pussy Riot with a
video crammed with celebrity supporters.

The band were coolly grateful for all support, and their lawyers acknowledged
that the international outcry helped to secure relatively lenient jail terms and
free Samutsevich on appeal, but the circus of western celebrity sits uneasily
with Pussy Riot's stern rejection of fame and capitalism. "We're flattered, of
course, that Madonna and Bjork have offered to perform with us," a member using
the pseudonym Orange told Radio Free Europe. "But the only performances we'll
participate in are illegal ones. We refuse to perform as part of the capitalist
system, at concerts where they sell tickets."

Madonna, specifically, deserves credit for championing the band at her Moscow
concert during the trial, but not for selling Pussy Riot T-shirts in her online
store. This is a band for whom "selling out", an increasingly archaic concept in
the west, is unimaginable. They are currently at odds with their former lawyers
over the fate of the Pussy Riot brand - wanting to keep it out of the hands of
unscrupulous merchandisers. They have also criticised copycat protests outside
Russia and chastised young women hoping to follow their example without doing
the intellectual spadework. "They don't know about feminism or art," said
Samutsevich. "They say we are against Putin and that's it. I can't prohibit it,
but I don't approve of it . . . Any person can put on a balaclava, it's all very
good, but it's important that the ideas are not warped."

Certainly the international frenzy around Pussy Riot involves an uncomfortably
voyeuristic fascination with a situation in which punk can land you a prison
sentence rather than a Converse advert - a nostalgia for the outlaw frisson that
music once possessed in the west. And slogans such as "We Are All Pussy Riot"
downplay how abrasively radical their ideas and methods would be even in London
or New York. But any threat of Pussy Riot becoming cuddly icons - "Manic Pixie
Dream Dissidents" in writer Sarah Kendzior's phrase - is dispelled whenever the
women themselves speak, with a distinctly Russian severity and blade-like
clarity of purpose. When Der Spiegel interviewed Tolokonnikova in the penal
colony, she regretted nothing: "If you're afraid of wolves, you shouldn't go
into the forest. I'm not afraid of wolves." So far they have used the machinery
of pop far more than it has used them.

Pussy Riot have vowed to continue although their future is uncertain. The
remaining members are in hiding. The Russian government has labelled their
videos "extremist" and thus illegal. Samutsevich and Tolokonnikova's husband,
Pyotr Verzilov, have separately been accused of being Kremlin agents. The
Russian public, including many fellow musicians and opposition politicians, has
failed to rally to their defence. Pro-regime newspapers seize any excuse to run
smear stories about the women. "Pussy Riot Finished," crowed Rossiyskaya Gazeta,
hopefully prematurely.

Pussy Riot, both in and out of jail, are doing what they can. For their
sympathisers the challenge is to neither forget nor romanticise them. They are
not our cute punk pin-ups but unflinching hardline activists whose work demands
a response on two fronts. Their supporters need to keep agitating on behalf of
the jailed women and their less well-known fellow dissidents. And musicians and
artists who live under less wolfish regimes should use Pussy Riot's
inspirational example as a spur to action.

As Bikini Kill's Kathleen Hanna wrote during the trial, "This could be the start
of a whole new thing, a whole new motivating source for a globally connected
unapologetic punk feminist art and music scene. A catalyst, no matter what it
gets called. Anything is possible. If anything, this band has reminded us of
that."

Read more about Pussy Riot and watch an exclusive video interview at
guardian.co.uk/pussyriot

Captions:

'Their concerts are Situationist-inspired acts of dissent' . . . (top) Pussy
Riot in court in October, from left: Samutsevich, Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova;
(below) the band performing in a cathedral in February before being arrested

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             721 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Police, city poorly prepared: report

BYLINE: Jeff Lee, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 813  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Darryl Dyck/THE CANADIAN PRESSVancouver police and city officials should have
been better prepared for the massive crowds that flooded downtown for Game 7 of
the Stanley Cup final, an independent review of the June 15 riot has concluded.

The review found a litany of problems that plagued police as they tried to
control the incendiary riot, from faulty radios that prevented transmission of a
key command, to the improper location of needed riot-control gear, to a lack of
a regional public safety plan.

But the authors of the report, John Furlong and Douglas Keefe, say that on
balance, the lessons presented by the riot shouldn't prevent Vancouver from
holding large downtown public events in the future.

And they say they concluded Mayor Gregor Robertson played no part in directing
police planning or financial discussions, something he has maintained since the
riot broke out.

The report contained a few criticisms of how what was supposed to be a peaceful
family-oriented gathering to mark the final game between the Vancouver Canucks
and the Boston Bruins turned into a night of widespread looting, vandalism and
violence.

The report's authors said the riot, in which at least 60 businesses were looted
or vandalized, "was not beyond imagining" and could have been predicted hours
earlier given the rapidly-changing atmosphere downtown.

The two men, aided by a team of public safety consultants, made 53
recommendations aimed at improving public safety, major event planning, the
control of alcohol and judicial outcomes from the riot.

The report also addresses one of the hot-button issues that emerged after the
riot: how many officers the Vancouver Police Department deployed on Game 7 day.

Although police Chief Jim Chu has long argued that number is secret for security
purposes, Furlong and Keefe said keeping it secret now is a moot point. They
said the original police plan called for 446 officers to be deployed. By the end
of the night, 928 were on the job.

But they said that initial number was more than adequate to cover the city's
needs and noted that when Chicago won the 2009 Stanley Cup, 450 officers and 20
horses policed a crowd of 1.2 million people.

"We conclude the number of police identified in VPD's plan was appropriate,
given the threat level," the report said.

Instead, they said the police department's operational plan did not identify
criteria that would automatically trigger changes in responses.

"For example, the VPD's plan should have required a report on the number of
people downtown beginning late in the morning and providing options for earlier
deployment," the report said.

The provincial government formed the Keefe/Furlong inquiry on June 28 in an
effort to determine how the riot occurred and what could be done to prevent such
occurrences in future. Keefe is a former Nova Scotia deputy attorney general and
career bureaucrat. Furlong is the former president and CEO of the Vancouver
Organizing Committee for the 2010 Winter Olympics. He was hired after he
personally offered his services to B.C. Premier Christy Clark.

Over the last two months Furlong and Keefe met with a number of politicians,
police and business groups.

The reviewers also examined the recommendation that came out of a similar review
into the 1994 Stanley Cup riot that occurred in Vancouver when the Canucks lost
a Stanley Cup final Game 7 to the New York Rangers.

There were some similarities between the two events, including criticism over a
lack of co-ordinated planning among police departments and the discovery that
again, as in 1994, malfunctioning equipment played a part.

The report noted "command confusion" ensued in trying to quell the June 15 riot
in part because the RCMP's tactical troops were equipped with a faulty Vancouver
Police radio. One portion of the troop did not hear a command to suit up in riot
gear, causing delay and confusion.

At the same time, the VPD put a cache of gear in a bad location that was later
overrun by rioters.

"On an ordinary night, it might have been a small problem but on June 15 the
congestion turned it into a significant problem," said the report.

Images of the riots, violence and looting spread quickly around the world and
were a dark counterpoint to the joyful images of the 2010 Vancouver Olympics
just months before.

Police and municipal officials were quick to decry the riots as the work of
violent anarchists and malcontents, although video footage showed that many of
the rioters were disappointed Canuck fans who were caught up in the moment and
impetuously joined in the mayhem.

Several dozen people whose photographs were publicized in the days following
either turned themselves in or were brought in by their parents. And in the
aftermath of the riots, hundreds of Vancouver residents returned to the downtown
with brooms to help clean the mess.

Some looted stores took several weeks to reopen.

Vancouver Sun

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Darryl Dyck, The Canadian Press; Former head of the  Vancouver Olympic
Committee John Furlong, right, and former Nova  Scotia deputy attorney general
Douglas Keefe speak on Thursday after  releasing their report into Vancouver's
Stanley Cup riot. They  concluded that there was a "litany of problems."

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             722 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Three charged in prison riot and escape attempt

BYLINE: Maple Ridge-Pitt Meadows Times

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 155  words

DATELINE: MAPLE RIDGE


MAPLE RIDGE - A prison riot last summer that left a Maple Ridge jail with
"extensive damage" has resulted in charges against three men.

Cash Vansanten and Johnny Nguyen have been charged with forcible prison break
with intent to free themselves and taking part in a riot. Peter Pete has also
been charged with taking part in a riot.

The melee at the Fraser Regional Corrections Centre broke out last August. It
took crews from the Lower Mainland Emergency Response Team, Ridge Meadows RCMP
members, three negotiators, as well as B.C. Corrections tactical teams, Maple
Ridge Fire Department and BC Ambulance to bring the riot under control.

A heavily censored copy of the B.C. Corrections investigation report into the
incident said "a physical review of the unit showed extensive damage."

Police are still investigating a second riot at the same jail on Feb. 9. In that
riot, prisoners smashed windows, set fires and tore up their cells.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             723 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            August 23, 2014 Saturday
                                Chennai Edition

Riot-hit Saharanpur prays for calm as bypoll looms

BYLINE: Avijit.Ghosh@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 663 words


The riots happened nearly four weeks ago.

Like a sharp burst of acid rain, it corroded Saharanpur claiming three lives and
snatching hundreds of livelihoods. Now, as the western UP town hobbles back to
normal, a fresh battle between memory and forgetting gets underway. The riot
-scarred town is gearing up for an assembly bypoll on September 13 and voters
are wary that election speeches could in? ame passions, adversely affecting the
brittle social fabric slowly on the mend.

"Politicians polarize people. Elections give them an opportunity to do it again.
After the riots, there's unease and fear, although the Rapid Action Force
presence creates a sense of security", says Manu Gupta, dean of students, Jain
Degree College. School principal Anita Kanwar says people are awaiting the polls
with a prayer on their lips.

"We hope it passes off peacefully," she says.

Filing of nomination began on Wednesday. Samajwadi Party has announced its
candidate. BSP isn't contesting. Congress and BJP are expected to name their
nominees on Saturday. The last day for ? ling nomination is August 27.

The Saharanpur Nagar assembly seat fell vacant after MLA Raghav Lakhanpal of BJP
contested the 2014 LS polls and overcame Congress' Imran Masood by over 65,000
votes. Lakhanpal won the assembly seat in 2012 despite Mulayam Singh Yadav's SP
sweeping the state.

Riots are rare in Saharanpur. The last was in 1992 after the Babri Masjid
demolition.

Although the Muzaffarnagar riots last September scorched most of western UP,
mildmannered Saharanpur kept its calm.

But the July 26 riots over a land dispute between Sikhs and Muslims drove
communities apart. Accused No 1 in the riot FIR is Moharram Ali aka Pappu, a
former BSP councilor. Shortly after the riots, Hindi newspapers frontpaged a
photo showing him with top SP leaders, including CM Akhilesh Yadav. The
photograph had been posted on the Facebook home page of Sanjay Garg, SP
candidate for the forthcoming poll. Garg contested the 2012 assembly election on
a BSP ticket.

Underlining his poll agenda, the SP candidate talks of shanti (peace),
bhaichara(brotherhood)

and vikas (development). He blames BJP for magnifying small incidents and making
political capital out of riots."At a ceremony following businessman Harish
Kochar's death in the riot, a BJP leader said: Tum Pakistan se ujad kar aaye
thhe. Yahan se ujad kar kahan jaoge. Isn't this inciting people," asks Garg.

Moharram Ali is known to have campaigned for Congress during the 2014 LS
polls.Masood, an important Congress leader here, whose controversial "boti boti"
remark

on Narendra Modi, earned him instant headlines, said: "I can neither con? rm nor
deny if he was in Congress. I can say for sure that nobody has the right to
instigate riots." Masood too promises to keep his campaign sober.

"BJP will do what it does best.

But we'll keep the peace," he says. At least on one occasion, Masood walked the
talk.

Transporter Moksh Bir Singh recalls last year Masood played peacemaker when a
Muslim woman died under a Kanwariya trolley.

At the moment, there's a rush to become BJP's Saharanpur Nagar candidate. Party
district president Manveer Singh says he's received 64 applications for the job.
The party campaign, he insists, will focus on the absence of law and order and
electric

ity shortage. " As for the riots, video footage is available for all to see. The
government doesn't want to act against the real rioters," he says.

Despite all parties talking harmony , a mismatch between words and deeds cannot
be ruled out, reason why Saharanpur's new DM Inderbir Singh Yadav is taking no
chances. "We had a video conference with the Election Commission. Apart from
PAC, six RAF companies are posted. I'm going to ask for more forces," he says.

In Saharanpur, old-timers love to talk about Baba Lal Das and Shah Haroon
Chisti, medieval saints from different religions whose friendship is worth an
Amar Chitra Katha special. The town needs all that and much more to heal and
restore.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             724 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 2, 1990

In the kingdom of the blind: Saturday's riot has produced incomprehension and
condemnation, with extremists blamed for the violence Martin Kettle surveys the
history of riots in London and argues that conspiracy theories are rarely right

BYLINE: By MARTIN KETTLE

LENGTH: 1140 words


NELSON has looked down from his column on many Battles of Trafalgar Square over
the years. Some have become legends. Many have been forgotten. But if the
judgments being made yesterday are correct, the riot he saw on Saturday was a
West End premiere.

Police and demonstrators have fought many times in the square and the streets
which surround it. The 1880s and the 1930s stand out for their levels of
violence, but they were not unique. On Bloody Sunday in November 1887, three
demonstrators died and police horsemen killed a bystander in the aftermath. On
several occasions, the battles spilled over into more general looting in the
West End. Windows were smashed all down Pall Mall in 1886, as clubland Hooray
Henrys jeered at the unemployed. Charing Cross Road and the Strand were wrecked
in 1932 as special constables tried to prevent hunger marchers from carrying
their banners into the square.


In the past, however, it was generally the police who started the violence. The
clashes of 1886 and 1887, for instance, broke out because the Metropolitan
Police were determined to prevent the unemployed and the poor from holding
rallies at the heart of the empire. Bloody Sunday, in which more than 200 were
hospitalised, took place because armed and mounted police, backed up by foot
soldiers and even a regiment of Guards with fixed bayonets, deliberately
attacked the demonstrators as they approached down St Martin's Lane.

In our day, Trafalgar Square protest rallies have come to be seen more as part
of the normal order of things. But the right to protest in the square was won,
not granted, in the face of official hostility and fear of what a crowd might do
in the West End, and in the vicinity of Parliament. The authorities' reaction to
Bloody Sunday was to pass a special law banning all meetings in the square. Even
now, all rallies are still banned in midweek, while Parliament sits, and the
Public Order Act has repeatedly been used to ban political demonstrations in
recent years. Yesterday, the leading Conservative backbencher John Wheeler
pressed for even more vigorous prohibitions.

What marks Saturday out from the traditions of central London public disorder,
apparently, is that part of the crowd started it by climbing on to scaffolding
and attacking the police with missiles. All the reports agree that most of the
demonstration was peaceful and traditional. A minority, according to many who
were present, was not. According to one eye-witness, Labour MP George Galloway:
'Lunatics, anarchists and other extremists, principally from the Socialist
Workers' Party, were out for a rumble the whole time and now they've got it.'

Even so, the reports are conflicting. In a letter on the opposite page this
morning, Mr Jonathan Davies, an SWP member, claims that the trouble started in
Whitehall when police attacked a group of protesters near Downing Street and
that disorder then spread as they tried to do the same thing in the square
itself. His claims are consistent with the report in the Sunday Times, which
also attributed the initial violence to police action outside the Downing Street
gates.

There has never been a riot in British history where someone hasn't claimed that
the whole thing was a conspiracy by a minority. During the Gordon Riots of 1780
(which were far more destructive than Saturday's affair) there were said to be
50 men in charge; 'they only come at night,' a government informer claimed. But
they were never found. Official reports into the Swing riots of 1830-31 were
full of claims that the arson campaign was being organised by 'Jew-looking
fellows' or 'distant and foreign incendiaries.' No one ever produced them. After
the 1979 riot in Southall, the Metropolitan Police chief Sir David McNee alleged
the whole thing was the fault of 'outsiders, hell-bent on violence'. Later
studies showed that almost all the protesters were Asians from Southall. During
the 1981 riots, the Daily Mail ran a front page headed 'Extremists' Master Plan
for Chaos'. Yet again, though, the masterminds got clean away.

Modern British society has tremendous difficulty explaining riots. In 1981, Mrs
Thatcher's first reaction to the Toxteth riots was to worry about local
shopkeepers. Publicly, she blamed the riots on lack of respect for authority.
Without any evidence to back them up, most people in 1981 simply blamed the
thing they most disliked. Roy Hattersley blamed unemployment, Enoch Powell
blamed black people, Rhodes Boyson blamed the school system, Ian Lloyd MP blamed
the study of sociology, Shirley Williams blamed Militant, the Times blamed the
race relations industry and the Daily Express blamed John McEnroe's bad example.
Most of the rioters, on the other hand, blamed the way the police treated black
people. Lord Scarman, who actually studied the riots and produced a report on
them, agreed.

This time, of course, things are different in certain ways from 1981. In
particular, race was not a factor in Saturday night's rioting, a very useful
fact to remember next time someone blames rioting on the blacks. Nor, in any
very direct way, was deprivation. Many sympathisers will claim that the
anti-poll tax riots are directly concerned with the economic hardship caused by
the new tax, but there is no direct causality between deprivation and disorder.
E. P. Thompson long ago ridiculed the attempt to explain eighteenth-century
rioting in terms of quantifiable measures of suffering. The same goes for the
twentieth century.

In the last 36 hours, we have seen the beginnings of a re-run of the
incomprehension which marked the British reaction to the riots of 1981. Rioting
may be wrong, but it deserves to be analysed seriously. Rioting is a spontaneous
phenomenon that takes place when the rioters think they can get away with it,
both physically and morally. People riot when they have a sense of grievance and
when they feel emboldened by circumstances to commit acts of defiance or
destruction which require a certain bravery and example. Riots normally start
when people witness specific acts of injustice which no longer seem tolerable in
the circumstances. Riots frequently then develop discriminately, according to
the rioters' shared assumptions of what is, in their eyes, legitimate. This
should not mean that rioting is justifiable, only that it is explicable.

Saturday night's rioting in London may have been quite different from earlier
riots. Perhaps this time it was planned. Perhaps it was organised. Perhaps the
crowd started it. Perhaps the police were the innocent victims of the cowardly,
vicious and criminal attacks of people who 'went to the demonstration to make a
riot' as Neil Kinnock put it yesterday. Perhaps this time the violence was
mindless and the looting indiscriminate. If so, it would be something new.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             725 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                             March 15, 2016 Tuesday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

Trump won t face  inciting riot  charge

BYLINE: NC Greene Gary; The News & Observer of Raleigh

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 517 words


Cumberland County sheriff s investigators considered charging Republican
presidential candidate Donald Trump with inciting a riot at his Fayetteville
rally, but decided late Monday that Trump s comments didn t constitute a crime.

Ronnie Mitchell, an attorney for the department, said in a news release Monday
afternoon that investigators were probing an incident last week in which a
protester was punched in the face with an elbow while being escorted out of the
Trump event.

John Franklin McGraw, 78, of Linden, has been charged with assault, disorderly
conduct and communicating threats. Investigators say video shows McGraw punching
the protester.

We are continuing to look at the totality of these circumstances, including any
additional charges against Mr. McGraw, including the potential of whether there
was conduct on the part of Mr. Trump or the Trump campaign which rose to the
level of inciting a riot, and including the actions or inactions of our
deputies,  Mitchell said in the release.

But Monday evening, a sheriff s department spokesman said that after reviewing
the incident,  the evidence does not meet the requisites of the law  regarding
riots.

North Carolina riot law says that  any person who willfully incites or urges
another to engage in a riot, so that as a result of such inciting or urging a
riot occurs or a clear and present danger of a riot is created, is guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.

The law defines a riot as  a public disturbance involving an assemblage of three
or more persons which by disorderly and violent conduct, or the imminent threat
of disorderly and violent conduct, results in injury or damage to persons or
property.

During the Fayetteville event, Trump repeatedly paused his speech during
interruptions from protesters and called on security officers to  get  em out.

In the good old days, this doesn t happen because they used to treat them very,
very rough,  Trump said during one interruption.  And when they protested once,
you know, they would not do it again so easily. But today, they walk in and they
put their hand up, and they put the wrong finger up in the air at everybody, and
they get away with murder because we ve become weak.

McGraw is due in court on April 6, and Trump said Sunday that he s considering
helping McGraw with legal expenses. A video circulated online shows McGraw
saying that he doesn t regret punching the protester and that  the next time we
see him, we might have to kill him.

Cumberland Sheriff Earl  Moose  Butler issued a statement after McGraw s arrest
last week.  Regardless of political affiliation, speech, race, national origin,
color, gender, bad reputation, prior acts or political demonstration, no other
citizen has the right to assault another person or to act in such a way as this
defendant did,  said Butler, who is a Democrat.

At a rally in Hickory on Monday morning, Trump said claims that his events
provoke violence are inaccurate.

You know how many people have been hurt at our rallies?  he said.  I think like
basically none, other than I guess maybe somebody got hit once, but there s no
violence.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             726 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

UP temperature up after Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission submits report on
Muzaffarnagar riots

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 350 words


LUCKNOW: Political temperature in the state shot up after reports that the
Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission that probed the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has
named politicians of the ruling Samajwadi Party and BJP for instigating the
riots.

Contents of the report, submitted to governor Ram Naik, are not officially
known. The governor will forward the report to the chief minister for taking
action. But sources confirmed that the report blamed politicians belonging to
the SP and BJP. It also mentioned the role of some BJP leaders for vitiating the
atmosphere in western UP after the riots started in September 2013 and
pinpointed to dereliction of duty of bureaucrats and police officers.

The 775 page report into the riots that killed more than 62 people and rendered
more than 40,000 people homeless was prepeared after recording statements of 377
common witnesses and 100 officials. The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission which
was appointed by the state government in the aftermath of the riots also
questioned then DGP Devraj Nagar and SP of all five affected districts.

Justice Sahai refused to divulege details on his report. "There were some
politicians. The role of officials has been examined in detail in the report. We
have also suggested steps to prevent such a riot in the future," he said.

While the Congress demanded that the report be made public and be placed in the
UP assembly, there was no official word on the report. Congress spokesperson
Virendra Madan said that both the SP and BJP were responsible for the riots.
"The BJP instigated riots with an eye on the Lok Sabah polls which were due less
than a year after the carnage happened. The ruling Samajwadi Party did nothing
to stop it. Both are to be blamed and we will take the report to the people once
its out," Madan said.

BJP MP Sangeet Som, who was seen as one of the important figures involved in the
riots rejected the report. "We were not made part of the report. It seems one
sided and we reject it," Sangeet Som, who is alleged to have circulated some
video clips through social media said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             727 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday

BJP accuses media of bias in highlighting Gujarat riots

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 272 words


NEW DELHI: On the 10th anniversary of Gujarat riots, BJP on Tuesday alleged the
media has ignored the 1984 anti-Sikh carnage in which convictions were
"negligible" but continues to highlight the 2002 incident despite strong police
action and the state's growth under Narendra Modi.

In an article, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley defended the
role of the Modi government during the riots and maintained that not only have
no such incident taken place in Gujarat since 2002, the state, including its
Muslim population, has seen "remarkable" development.

"Gujarat for a long time had an unfortunate history of such riots, small or big.
It was men and events which triggered such conflicts, the last of such major
riots being in the year 2002. As a section of the media re-visits the Gujarat
riots of 2002, it is equally important to look at Gujarat 10 years after the
riots," Jaitley said.

The senior BJP leader hoped the "unfortunate events of 2002" will never be
repeated. He maintains Gujarat "has moved on and its agenda is no longer a
social divide".

"The memories of 2002 are not revived by the Gujaratis. They are revived by
elements within the society whose relevance exists in reviving the sad memories
of past," Jaitley said.

Describing the Godhra train burning incident as a "barbaric act" that was
planned by "mischievous elements" with the intention of creating communal
trouble, Jaitley said it had "stunned" society.

Hundreds died in police firing in the riots that followed, which is in contrast
to anti-Sikh riots where not one person died in police firing, he maintained.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             728 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                 Delhi Edition

Panel gives clean chit to SP govt for Muzaffarnagar riots

BYLINE: Subhash.Mishra@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 444 words


The one-man judicial commission probing the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots has
reportedly concluded that the SP government's role was satisfactory and it took
enough measures to control the situation.

According to sources, the panel, which submitted its report to governor Ram Naik
on Wednesday has blamed local BJP members like Sangeet Singh Som, BSP ex-MP
Qadir Rana and some local Muslim leaders having allegiance with SP for fuelling
the riots that claimed more than 60 lives and forced over 50,000 to

live in refugee camps.

The SP government on Thursday said the report would be analysed and tabled in
the assembly in the next session. "The government is studying the report and
would take appropriate action when the time comes.Stringent action would be
taken against the guilty," a government spokesman said.

Sources say Justice (retd) Vishnu Sahai, who headed the panel, has concluded
that there was no failure of the government in controlling the flare-up. The
report says proper directions were issued from Lucknow to officers in the riot
-torn areas of the western UP district and all possible measures were taken to
control the communal fren

zy. "It was the decision of the state government to seek the Army's help to
control the situation," says the report.

Going deep into the trigger point, the report says it was a YouTube clip
clandestinely circulated by BJP members that led to one of the bloodiest riots
in UP's history . Along with Som, 231 BJP workers and supporters have reportedly
been named for fuelling riots.

If the panel has blamed Som and supporters for triggering the communal passion,
it has singled out the Muzaffarnafar police for its inability to control it.
Riots could have been averted had the Muzaffarnagar SSP Subhash Chand Dubey been
alert to smell the looming tension and prepare an action plan to defuse it,
Sahai has reportedly concluded.

Sahai has also reportedly indicted BSP's Rana, then Muzaffarnagar MP, for
inciting the mob.

Report politically motivated: BJP

BJP on Thursday rejected the Sahai panel's report on saying the Muzaffarnagar
riots, its findings are "politically motivated" and meant to "cover up" actions
of the state's SP government.Even the Supreme Court had pulled up the SP
government for the riots, he said, alleging that the communal violence was
"sponsored" by SP.

Riot-tainted MLA claims LeT threat

Sangeet Som, a BJP MLA whose name figured prominently as one of the accused in
the Vishnu Sahai panel report on the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, said on Thursday
that he received death threats in a letter from Lashkar-e-Taiba. The Sardhana
MLA said the letter threatened to behead him and display the severed head in
Meerut.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             729 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday

Report: Corrections failed to respond to warnings of security risks that led to
August riot

BYLINE: Neil Nisperos, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words


CHINO - A state investigation into the Aug. 8 prison riot at California
Institution for Men reported state prison officials ignored warnings about the
security risks in the facility's housing units.

The California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation did not address the
"dangerous incompatibility" of higher-security-risk prisoners being housed in
large, wooden dormitories, according to the report. These inmates are generally
confined in cells, rather than an open dormitory setting as they were during the
riot, according to the report.

The dorms' design risks included their wooden construction, numerous blind
spots, glass windows and porcelain bathroom fixtures that could be broken and
used for weapons. The conditions contributed to the severity and duration of the
riot.

The Office of the Inspector General released their findings on Thursday about
the riot, which involved nearly 1,200 inmates and injured nearly 250.

According to the report, corrections officials received several warnings about
housing inmates in the dormitories at Reception Center West prior to the riot
but did not make any changes.

Prior warnings about the dorms:

Wayne Scott, former director of the Texas Department of Corrections, said "The
housing unit was a serious disturbance waiting to happen. If the prisoners
wanted to take over the dorm they could do so in a second and no one would
know." He made the statements after touring the dorms in 2007.

An OIG report in November 2008 warned "placing inmates with histories of
disruptive or assaultive behavior in an open setting where they can roam freely
and where fights among inmates can quickly escalate and spread creates a more
dangerous environment for inmates and staff members."

CIM officials had requested funds from state corrections officials to replace
dorms at Reception Center West in April 2008. They cited that the buildings did
not comply with state building codes for their current occupancy groups. The
officials also said they did not have fire alarm protection.

The OIG report released Thursday did commend the immediate and effective
response to the riot. CIM staff heeded recommendations from outside agencies to
enhance emergency preparedness. Their actions likely reduced the number of
inmates who needed hospitalization.

Reconstruction work on the riot-damaged dormitories at Reception Center West is
expected to be completed by the summer.

Officials plan to have fewer beds and lower-risk inmates at the center than they
did prior to the riot, said Scott Kernan, deputy corrections secretary of adult
operations. The beds will house lower-security general population inmates there.

The Corrections department in March released its own internal report on the riot
as well as a corrective action plan, which highlighted areas in need of
improvement. Recommended changes included ways to identify inmates during riots
and to improve communication with responding law enforcement agencies.

The riot, which officials said was sparked by racial tensions, hastened the
closure of the nearby Heman G. Stark Youth Correctional Facility. The closure
was part of an estimated $110 million plan to place 2,000 more adult prison beds
in cells at Stark after a planned refurbishment and installation of lethal
electrical perimeter fencing.

Stark conversion plans call for a new inmate reception center to be called
Reception Center-South.

Kernan said the administrative and organizational structure for the new site is
being finalized, although operations are being handled through CIM.

CIM is just a few miles to the west of the former youth prison on state-owned
land that lies between Euclid and Central avenues.

About 700 inmates from the adult prison are already housed in a two-story,
concrete-celled unit at the former Stark facility and another 700 are expected
to be moved there later this year.

neil.nisperos@inlandnewspapers.com , 909-483-9356

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             730 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 2, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Protest march through time;
From Boadicea to the poll tax riots and even today's strikers, furious with an
incompetent government, Britain has a strong and sometimes bloody history of
mass civil unrest

BYLINE: By Bill Coles

SECTION: NEWS ; 20

LENGTH: 1194  words


SO FAR the strikes, sit-ins and public haranguing of the Government and its
handling of the economy have remained peaceful, if tinged with anger.

Last week in Paris, however, and earlier in January in Greece, the streets
turned into battlefields as disgruntled citizens demonstrated against their
governments in as forceful a way as possible. Some say that if the economic
gloom in Britain continues to darken, civil unrest might be an inevitable
consequence, something we've been doing for centuries.

The causes of our riots have varied from unemployment to punitive taxes but
often they're sparked by people who believe they have nothing left to lose.

This rich history of mass protest against the establishment goes back nearly
2,000 years, starting with Queen Boadicea in AD 60.

The flame-haired Boadicea, fighting against the enslavement of her people,
sacked London and slaughtered 30,000 men, women and children in an upmarket area
of Roman villas that would now lie between Ludgate Hill and Mansion House.

At her final battle, historians record Boadicea driving round the tribes in a
chariot, from where she made a speech that would come to be echoed over
centuries by all manner of protesters: "We British are used to woman commanders
in war. I am descended from mighty men! But now I am not fighting for my kingdom
and wealth. I am fighting as an ordinary person for my lost freedom, my bruised
body and my outraged daughters."

Although Boadicea's uprising ended in failure - she and her daughters poisoned
themselves and some 80,000 Britons were slaughtered - it was to be the first in
a long line of civil insurrections. But it took a foreigner to show the world
just how much of a tinderbox this country can be. In 1769 US statesman Benjamin
Franklin wrote of his trip to England: "I have seen within a year riots in the
country about corn; riots about elections; riots about workhouses; riots of
colliers; riots of weavers; riots of coal heavers; riots of sawyers; riots of
Wilkesites; riots of government chairmen; and riots of smugglers."

A few years earlier in 1749 there had even been a riot over the new tax on gin.
Looters stormed playhouses and prisons and amazingly the government caved in,
reducing the levy.

Many uprisings have been sparked by workers fearing for their jobs and the
gripes of 200 years ago seem all too similar to the complaints of today's
jobless as they see their jobs being snapped up by cheap foreign labour.

The Luddites, led by the mythical General Ned Ludd, terrified factory and mill
owners in the early 19th century by systematically destroying the new-fangled
machines that had been taking their jobs.

There was also a rural version of the Luddites who launched the Swing riots in
1830, demolishing more than 100 threshing machines in East Kent.

Although the new machines were the target of the protesters' ire, the riots were
chiefly caused by the wretched poverty of agricultural workers.

With fewer jobs, wages down and no chance of bettering themselves, the Swing
rioters, named after a Captain Swing, took their cause all over southern Britain
under the slogan: "Bread or blood." But, although many barns and hayricks were
burned, not a single person was killed.

The Suffragette movement revealed that women could be quite different from the
meek, mild stay-at-homes that the Victorians and Edwardians expected them to be.

Under the banner "Votes for women" the Suffragettes introduced the most genteel
form of guerrilla warfare ever seen in Britain. They still dressed and carried
themselves as ladies, while torching post-boxes and spitting at policemen. The
Suffragette movement was also unusual because the protesters tended to act as
lone renegades - most famously Emily Wilding Davidson died for the cause after
throwing herself in front of the King's horse Anmer in the 1913 Epsom Derby.

Women would roam around Whitehall with stones in their handbags, smashing the
windows of government buildings. As one stone-thrower recalled: "To women of
culture and refinement and of sheltered upbringing the deliberate act of
throwing a stone, even as a protest, in order to break a window requires an
enormous amount of moral courage."

The Suffragettes' final victory was an unexpected knock-on effect of the First
World War. Within days of war being declared the Suffragettes were released from
prison, and were campaigning to do "men's work" in the munitions factories.

Their new slogan became "For men must fight and women must work" and by 1918 six
million women over 30 were finally allowed to vote.

As the Suffragette leader Mrs Emmeline Pankhurst remarked: "Is it not wonderful
that the war has finally brought us victory?"

In 1936 200 marchers walked 300 miles from Jarrow to Westminster to protest at
the collapse of the shipbuilding industry. Britain was in the throes of the
Great Depression and, just as is occurring in the current recession, many
traditional industries were going to the wall.

Jarrow was suffering from 70 per cent unemployment and after years of poverty
its jobless men had nothing to lose by taking to the streets. The walkers were
supported by a bus with cooking equipment and groundsheets and the march took
them a month.

Although the success of the crusade was limited, three years afterwards a
steelworks was established in Jarrow and the march is still seen as a landmark
in the history of the labour movement.

W HEN Margaret Thatcher introduced the poll tax she obviously didn't know her
history. It was the poll tax which directly led to the Peasants' Revolt of 1381,
the most extreme insurrection in English history. The Tower of London was
stormed and the Lord Chancellor and the Lord Treasurer were both executed. For
Mrs Thatcher, the results were not quite so severe but her poll tax sparked
perhaps London's biggest riot of the 20th century, which came to be known as the
Battle For Trafalgar Square.

Some 200,000 people left much of the West End looking like a war zone. The
demonstration exploded into an all-out riot after a mounted police charge in
which hundreds of protesters were shoved up against a solid wall of police
shields.

Thousands of protesters panicked and a series of running battles developed all
round Trafalgar Square. One motorist was dragged from his Jaguar and beaten
before his car was torched.

Fifty cars were attacked or set on fire; 394 shops and offices in central London
were looted and more than 500 policemen were injured with 60 ending up in
hospital.

Councils faced huge problems when they tried to set the poll tax. A crowd of
1,000 protesters mobbed Haringey Council in 1990 as it met to set the poll tax
rate, with 100 people forcing their way into the public gallery. The protesters
were eventually dragged away by the police and the council meeting was
abandoned.

Within the year Mrs Thatcher was out of office and, just as had been predicted
by observers of history, the poll tax had been scrapped.

Just like so many uprisings in British history, the poll tax demonstrations
occurred because groups of ordinary, everyday people believed that they were no
longer being heard by the cavalier government of the day.

Does it all sound ever so slightly familiar?

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DISTRAUGHT: Striking workers believe that Gordon Brown has betrayed
them
STRUGGLE: The poll tax riots, above, led to the end of Mrs Thatcher who had, a
decade before, pushed miners into taking direct action, below. The Jarrow
crusade, far left, highlighted the curse of pre-war unemployment.More recently,
right, anti-war protesters staged their own march

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved


                             731 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                          December 18, 1999, Saturday,

Revamped Riots romp past Tigers;
 The South Portland girls show balance and depth in winning a Class A basketball
opener.

BYLINE: LARRY WOODWARD Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS, Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: SOUTH PORTLAND


The South Portland girls ended their 1998-99 basketball season with
disappointment, a loss to Morse in the preliminary round of the Western Maine
Class A tournament.

As they opened the new season Friday night, the Red Riots seemed poised to make
a run deeper into the tournament this season.

South Portland showed more balance and more confidence as it ran away from
Biddeford for a 53-36 victory at Beal Gymnasium in both teams' season opener.

Riot senior center Abbie Rice led her team with 12 points. But that was expected
from a veteran player.

It was the players around her, guards Angela Valeriani and Annie Ghiloni and
forwards Caitlin Ferriter and Megan Greenlaw, who made the Riots go. They got
the ball inside where Rice could do her work.

Add to the mix a significant increase in depth with the addition of freshmen
Abby Lesneski and Molly Rice, Abbie's sister, and the Riots have found the
balance they need to be successful. Each freshman scored seven points.

"We have more strength underneath than we had last year," said Abbie Rice, a
captain with Ghiloni and Ferriter. "We're really more balanced."

The Riots and the Tigers both wanted to play an uptempo game, and they ran
end-to-end in the first half. Both teams stressed pressure defense, which
accounted for a few swings in momentum.

Biddeford opened the first lead on consecutive backcourt steals for baskets by
Sarah Conroy and Meghan Lessard. But South Portland answered with baskets by
Lesneski and Abbie Rice for a 9-9 score at the end of the first period.

The Riots outscored Biddeford 9-2 over the final two minutes of the second
period. Valeriani scored off a fast break to tie the game at 15. The Riots added
a free throw by Abbie Rice and a rebound score by Molly Rice before Maureen
Parker scored a basket for the Tigers.

Valeriani hit a 3-pointer with 14 seconds left to give the Riots a 21-17 lead at
halftime.

South Portland opened the second half with an 8-1 run in the first four minutes
for a 29-18 lead. Five Riots scored in the run.

Cassie Green and Conroy scored to stop the run, but a basket by Valeriani and a
three-point play by Ferriter closed out the period at 34-22, and the Tigers
never got closer than seven points again.

"I thought the third period was the key for us," said South Portland Coach Mike
Giordano. "We built on the lead we had at the end of the first half and extended
it."

Biddeford had difficulty scoring against the Riots' zone defense in the third
period. The Tigers scored just five points and Lessard, their leading scorer,
was held scoreless.

"Our zone really gave Biddeford trouble," said Giordano. "We limited the number
of shots Lessard could take. She's a good player, and you have to defend her."

The Tigers had more success against the zone in the final period. Lessard scored
six of her game-high 14 points, and Parker had seven of her 12.

The Riots were able to take advantage of their free throws in the fourth to
build their lead. They made 13 of 17 attempts in the period to finish 18 of 26.

"We handled Biddeford's pressure," said Abbie Rice. "We're confident, and we had
a lot of composure. The two freshmen are really stepping up."

Staff Writer Larry Woodward can be contacted at 791-6424 or at:

lwoodward@pressherald.com


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: color and b[w]

Staff photos by John Ewing;

 Cassie Green of Biddeford draws a foul by Molly Rice of South Portland while
driving to the basket Friday night. The Red Riots won the Western Maine Class A
basketball opener, 53-36.;

 Caitlin Ferriter of South Portland beats a Biddeford defender for a layup
during Friday's game at South Portland. The Red Riots led 21-17 at;

 halftime, then pulled away to a 53-36 victory.

                 Copyright 1999 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                             732 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday

Afghan, ISAF forces suppress prison riot in western province

LENGTH: 248 words


Text of report by privately-owned Afghan Arzu TV on 20 March

A number of prisoners, who staged a riot in Ghowr Province in the afternoon of
Thursday [18 March], stopped their riots after the intervention of Afghan
security forces and foreign forces.

According to local officials in Ghowr Province, the riot in the provincial
prison [in Chaghcharan, capital of Ghowr Province] started when prisoners
protested the transfer of a murderer, accused of killing an influential
tribesman, from the Ghowr Province prison to the Pol-e Charkhi prison in Kabul.

[Correspondent] The spokesman for the Ghowr governor said that the prisoners'
riot started at 1300 in the afternoon of Thursday and continued till last
midnight. The riot was suppressed with the help of Afghan forces and ISAF
[International Security Assistance Force]. Mr Khatibi said that no one had
suffered in the riot. However, during the riot and disorder, the prisoners broke
many windows of the Ghowr Province prison and inflicted material losses to the
prison. He added that the situation in the prison was now under control of the
Afghan and foreign forces and prison officials have started investigations into
this case.

Prisoners and human rights organizations in the west of Afghanistan have
repeatedly expressed concern about the poor conditions of prisons in this part
of the country.

[Video shows armed police and security forces and their vehicles patrolling an
area]

Source: Arzu TV, Mazar-e Sharif, in Dari 1500 gmt 20 Mar 10

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             733 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Two 14-year-old boys facing charges in Stanley Cup riot

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 387 words


Two 14-year-old boys are among the latest group of suspects expected to be
charged with offences dating back to the Stanley Cup riot.

Supt. Dean Robinson of the Vancouver Police Department said Tuesday that police
are recommending 118 charges against 27 people in connection with the June 2011
riot. That brings the total number of recommended charges to 1,204 offences
against 352 suspects.

"Our investigators continue to work very closely with Crown counsel, putting
their best cases forward to the courts, as is evident with the number of guilty
pleas that have been entered," Robinson said at a media conference.

He noted that police requested charges against two 14-year-old boys they believe
participated in the riot.

The two could face a combined total of six counts of break and enter, two counts
of mischief, one count of mischief over $5,000 and two counts of participating
in a riot.

Investigators with the Integrated Riot Investigation Team say the latest "round
12" batch of people to be charged will be the last multi-list of suspects. Any
charges in the future against individuals suspected to have participated in the
riot will be done on a case-by-case basis.

Of the 352 suspects, 311 are men and 41 women.

The latest list has charges recommended against a woman who police allege was
caught on videotape assaulting a woman who was trying to protect an unmarked
police car. The Good Samaritan suffered facial and dental injuries. Charges of
participation in a riot, assault, break and enter, and breach of recognizance
also have been recommended against a 24-year-old man from Langley.

At the time of the riot, the man was on recognizance and bound by conditions in
relation to multiple firearms charges, including a requirement to remain under
house arrest and inside his residence.

During the riot, police said, the suspect was captured on film assaulting an
unknown man by kicking him while he was on the ground in a swarming attack in
the 800-block of Granville Street. The suspect was later caught on video
breaking into The Hudson's Bay store, police said.

¦ A man has been charged for alleged involvement in the attack on Good Samaritan
Robert Mackay.

Daniel Amesbury, 22, from Maple Ridge, is the 14th suspect charged by Crown out
of the 15 IRIT-identified suspects in that incident.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2013 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             734 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           August 31, 2016 Wednesday

Karnataka stands second in communal, political riots cases

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, Aug. 31 -- The latest crime data for the country shows that Karnataka
reported the second highest number of communal and political riots. But this
isn't to say that the atmosphere in the state has been polarised. In fact, the
numbers can be attributed to the state's reporting mechanism.

The National Crime Records Bureau's data for 2015 shows that Haryana topped the
list with 201 cases of communal riots in 2015. Karnataka trailed with 163 cases.
Karnataka also reported the second highest number of political riots at 166
cases, far behind Kerala that reported 1,031 cases.

R S Deshpande, former director of Institute of Social and Economic Change,
Bengaluru, said, "As a political observer I don't see why there should be a
reason for spurt in communal riots in the state. There is no reason why the
political atmosphere needs to be polarised. It may be because of the state's
strong reporting system. I can say that in the recent past we have seen a few
more riots than before. This is in retraction to the national political scene."

Deshpande added, "Even small skirmishes are being reported with caste and
community colour. There has been a change in the definition of communal riots.
Also, bear in mind that when an incident gets reported as a communal riot there
is greater leverage for news. Even if a lingayat and a vokkaliga fight for
financial reasons, their community will be drawn into it."

Bengaluru also has the dubious distinction of reporting the second highest
number of riots at 373 cases, after Mumbai (396). In arson cases, Bengaluru
stands third with 99 reported cases, following Delhi with 182.

The city recorded the maximum number of cases of crimes against Dalits (SCs) -
127 cases.

Minister for Social Welfare H Anjaneya, a Dalit, said that the value of land
given to Scheduled Castes through land committees between 1972 and 75 has
increased over the years. Crimes against SCs have increased in a bid to reclaim
these government grants. "These are landless people. They own one to three acres
of land. There are atrocities against them to reclaim it from them as the land
value has increased manifold of late," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             735 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 30, 1984 Friday

A shameful side of Indian history

BYLINE: ZUHAIR KASHMERI; GAM

LENGTH: 1339 words


BY  ZUHAIR KASHMERI
   Mr. Kashmeri is a reporter with The Globe and Mail. He worked as a
 journalist in India from 1966 to 1971.

I   NDIRA Gandhi has been cremated. The Hindu mob frenzy directed at the  Sikhs
has largely subsided. And India's new Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi,  has turned
a brave face to his country, seeking understanding, sympathy  and an
overwhelming mandate in the general elections on Dec. 24.

For the world media, Mrs. Gandhi's assassination was, perhaps, the
 biggest news event of the decade. The ensuing riots added all the drama
 needed to keep India at the very top of the news for days. After all, it
 was a phenomenon easily explained. There was a cause. There was an effect.
 And the continuing saga could be neatly packaged in 24-hour cycles.

More than 1,000 Sikh men, women and children were butchered, according
 to official figures, in revenge for Mrs. Gandhi's assassination by her two
 Sikh bodyguards. The world gasped at the power of the Hindu mob and then
 sat back to watch media pundits describe it as a tragic occurrence that
 probably would not, on the whole, affect the fabric of the world's largest
 democracy of more than 700 million.

But is India really as integrated as its ruling Congress Party would
 have us believe? A historical analysis shows that the Hindu-Sikh riot was
 merely the most recent expression of a continuing history. It caught the
 world's attention for one reason only: it was linked to the killing of a
 world leader and happened while New Delhi was swarming with foreign
 correspondents.

But there is a more shameful side of this democracy - the hidden
 history of India's relations with its minorities. Relations in which
 bitterness is fostered routinely, in which religious rioting and killing
 is looked upon as a political tool and which political bosses at the lower
 level use as an institutionalized protection racket to extract votes.

To someone born and brought up in India and who covered Indian affairs
 as a reporter, this fact was clearly brought out in two Hindu-Moslem riots
 in Bhiwandi and Poona, two cities near Bombay, that I covered in the late
 1960s. The pattern of official response in the two riots was horrifyingly
 recreated in the recent one where Sikh replaced Moslem. The same police
 inaction for the first two or three days, despite a curfew followed by a
 shoot-at-sight order.

I remember contrasting the police response in these two riots to the
 response in a linguistic riot I covered in Bombay at about the same time.
 In this one, the shooting started the minute the riot did. By the second
 day the situation was under control. However, this riot involved the local
 Marathi-speaking Hindus who wanted to rid Bombay of the South Indian
 Hindus over jobs.

According to official figures, there were about 230 Hindu-Moslem riots
 from 1947 to 1978. The figure is now close to 300. And these do not
 include the mass rioting following the partition of the country into India
 and Pakistan in 1947. During those riots, a million lives are believed to
 have been lost. During the 11 years that Mrs. Gandhi was Prime Minister
 until 1977, the home ministry recorded about 3,000 communal incidents. New
 Age, a leftist publication in New Delhi, quoting a reply in Parliament,
 points out that 1,112 Harijans or untouchables, who form 20 per cent of
 the population, were murdered between 1967 and 1969.

Mocking Mrs. Gandhi's 1979 election slogan just before she was swept
 back into power, the magazine commented: "Indira Gandhi's 'Strong and
 Stable Government' was not for their (the untouchables') protection or
 that of the Moslems. . . Even official figures admit that more than 23,000
 atrocities have been committed against harijans during the last two years
 by caste Hindus."
    The riots are usually followed by commissions of inquiry into the
 rioting and the alleged police inaction. Politicans pay lip service to
 these commissions and larger ones such as the National Integration
 Commission and the Minorities Commission. The politicians promise to act
 on the recommendations. The police, with little minority representation in
 its ranks, is threatened with disciplinary action. And the riots simply
 reoccur.

In terms of causes, the pattern is mind- boggling. In Poona, near
 Bombay, the reason was a rumor spread among the Hindus that a Moslem had
 urinated on a Hindu idol. In Bhiwandi (not in the riots this year but the
 one in the late 1960s) rumor had it that Moslems had flung chunks of the
 holy cow's flesh into a Hindu temple. The most popular cause used to be a
 rumor that a lecherous Moslem youth had lured a chaste, young Hindu girl
 into an unholy act of copulation.

I remember a senior detective telling me after the Bhiwandi riots that
 there, as in Poona, the rumor was spread by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak
 Sangh or RSS, a militant Hindu organization that wants secular India to
 become a Hindu state. The anti-Moslem, anti-Christian philosophy of the
 RSS, which is openly linked to the Hindu Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the
 backbone of the opposition, runs along the following lines: Moslems and
 Christians are the invaders who need to be thrown out, as opposed to the
 Parsis (a sect that fled Iran after the Moslem conquest many centuries
 ago) and the Jews, who are our guests.

The detective pointed out that police intelligence reports (most police
 departments in India have a political intelligence wing) had been sent to
 the state government well in advance. The perpetrators were never caught
 and some of the popular media actually blamed Pakistani agents for
 sparking the riots. An analysis of many of the riots shows that foreign
 interferance is a favorite red herring.

Official sanction of the riots is usually followed by censorship,
 asking the major press not to publish unofficial death tolls and inflame
 passions. The major media, largely owned by business houses dealing with
 the two levels of government on a daily basis for export and import
 licences and foreign exchange, usually oblige. One day in Bhiwandi, by
 visiting tenement after tenement, I tabulated a death toll three times the
 official one handed out 60 miles away in Bombay. My paper, The Indian
 Express, the biggest chain in India, went with the official figure. The
 unofficial one simply reinforced a rule-of- thumb that most Indian
 journalists follow to arrive at the truth: double the official figure and
 multiply it by four.

Can one then seriously expect India's 18 million Sikhs to feel at one
 with the nation after the recent massacre that they say cost their
 community between 8,000 and 10,000 lives? Can anyone take seriously the
 Congress Party's claim that India's 70 million Moslems are living in peace
 and prosperity? Why then would the National Integration Commission
 recommend increased Moslem representation through job quotas?
    Obviously, the minorities have not been protected with tokenism such as
 the appointment of a Moslem president, Dr. Zakir Hussain, or a Sikh
 president, Zial Singh. In fact, the head of police during the Bhiwandi
 riot was a Moslem. The various commisson reports gather dust in New Delhi
 or one of the state capitals, while the pious platitudes simply reinforce
 what an Indian writer once said: India is a nation of great talkers.

Notions of democracy soon disappear in that ancient land, which still
 carries about it a mystical aura, with one visit to a poor village in the
 interior where votes are bought outright. Or, the minorities are told to
 line up behind the only party that can protect them. Or, food may suddenly
 begin appearing with promises of more after the elections.

It took a thinker as clear as Jawarharlal Nehru, Mrs. Gandhi's father,
 to grasp the Indian psyche, when he wrote: "The tortured mind seeks some
 mechanism of escape, the senses get dulled from repeated shocks and a
 feeling comes over one that so much evil and misfortune shadow the world
 that a little more or a little less does not make much difference . . .
 there remains only only thing . . . to act with courage and dignity . . .

but that is not the politician's way."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             736 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday

Kosi Kalan riot victims protest against clean chit given to BSP MLC

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 453  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Victims of communal riots Mathura's Kosi Kalan today slammed the Akhilesh Yadav
government for the clean chit given to Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLC Choudhary
Lekhraj Singh regarding his alleged involvement in the incident.

Nearly three dozen victims and relatives of those who were killed during the
riots reached Lucknow to narrate their woes today. They claimed that Lekhraj
Singh had reached Kosi Kalan around 11 pm the day riots occurred and toured the
area along with his son Nardev Singh instigating violence.

The victims, who met mediapersons in Lucknow today, demanded a CBI probe in the
whole incident and adequate compensation. The state government had given Rs 5
lakh each to the kin of four dead and Rs 50,000 to the injured.

Communal riots erupted in Kosi Kalan, Mathura on June 1, 2012, claiming four
lives and injuring several others. More than 100 FIRs were registered in the
incident. Former BSP minister Choudhary Lakshmi Narain, his brother BSP MLC
Choudhary Lekhraj Singh and Nardev Singh too were named in the FIR.

Lekhraj Singh had claimed that he was present in the Vidhan Parishad on June 1
and thus his name was unnecessarily dragged in the riots. On March 22, 2013, the
Vidhan Parishad was apprised by revenue minister Ambika Choudhary that  Lekhraj
Singh had no involvement in the riots and hence was given a clean chit.

Farzana, whose son-in-law Kalua and his twin brother Bhura were killed in the
riots, claimed that Lekhraj Singh along with his son Nardev and Bhagwat Prasad
Ruhela, who is chairman of Nagar Palika Parishad, Kosi Kalan, took a round of
the riot-affected area at 11 pm. "Lekhraj and his son Nardev openly threatened
us and the violence continued," she claimed. She also stated that Lekhraj
instigated violence and indicated Muslim houses and shops.

"If the call details of Lekhraj Singh are taken out, everything will be clear.
But the Samajwadi Party government is shielding him," Idrees, another victim,
stated. Idrees's nephew Salahuddin was killed in the riot.

Idrees also alleged that the police were pressurising him to settle the issue
with those who are named in the FIR for financial gain. "Nearly 35 complaints
were sent by registered post to the police but no action has been taken on them.
All the people cannot come out in the open as the accused are still threatening
us," said Nazim, whose son Iliyas was also attacked and seriously injured.
Police were yet to register a case.

Magasaysay award winner Sandeep Pandey too supported to the victims. A detailed
report of the Kosi Kalan riots has been prepared by social activists. "The
report will be released tomorrow by Justice (retd) Rajinder Sachchar in
Lucknow," Shahnawaz Alam, a volunteer of Rihai Manch, said.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             737 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Police have plans for any riots during Olympics, says watchdog

BYLINE: Matthew Taylorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 800 words

ABSTRACT

Sir Denis O'Connor says it would be 'foolish to ignore the possibility' of
further disorder on scale of last summer's riots

FULL TEXT

The government's chief inspector of policing has said contingency plans are in
place in case of rioting during the Olympics Games, and it would be "foolish to
ignore" the possibility for further civil disorder.

Sir Denis O'Connor, of Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC), said
there were "reserve proposals in place" to deal with any outbreak of unrest
during and after the Games, which begin this month.

"They [police forces] have made provision in relation to protest [and] they have
made provision in relation into more serious violence as we saw last summer," he
said. "They will have those arrangements until past the end of the Olympics -
that's good planning."

He said forces involved in preparing for the Olympics, which will be the biggest
peacetime policing operation in modern British history, had "a wide range of
contingencies", including riots. Part of the plan is the quick mobilisation of
officers into the capital from outside forces, he said.

O'Connor spoke to the Guardian after research into the police handling of the
riots revealed that officers fear a repeat of the riots and are concerned about
whether they will have the resources to cope if proposed budget cuts continue.

Asked what he thought about the possibility of a repeat of last summer's
disorder, O'Connor said: "These things are hard to predict, when the chemistry
of these things comes together. One would be foolish to ignore the possibility,
a) because people have seen it is possible to do that, and b) because the impact
of something like that, when it gathers momentum, is so problematic."

He said predicting unrest was more "art than science" but it was important to
prepare for every possibility. It would be necessary to "wait and see" whether
the cuts in police budgets would have a knock-on impact on preparedness for
dealing with public disorder, but he was particularly concerned over operational
support for police, which includes training and which is being more severely cut
than frontline services.

The Guardian and London School of Economics study, Reading the Riots, found that
one failing in London was the delay in calling for help from other forces under
the mutual aid system and confusion over how best to deploy those officers.

"The mutual aid process did not work as it should have done," O'Connor said.
"The real fundamental issue was that it took too long to provide that aid. It is
being looked at now."

He said some forces had made changes to the way they mobilised mutual aid
officers since the riots, and HMIC was reviewing how the system works.

"There are some reserve proposals in place to deal with the Olympics and the
other side of that. If somebody is looking to get frisky on Thursday, Friday or
Saturday night then there is provision in hand," he said. Asked to clarify his
comments, O'Connor said there was "provision inside and outside London" to deal
with any civil disorder during the Olympics.

He was speaking after the HMIC published its review of the impact of cuts on
police forces across England and Wales. The review warned that police forces
plan to reduce the number of frontline officers by 5,800 within the next three
years.

The Reading the Riots project interviewed 130 police officers of every rank
deployed in five different cities during last summer's unrest. Most thought
there was likely to be a repeat of the riots and raised concerns about their
preparedness after real-term cuts to police budgets of 20%.

Paul McKeever, the chairman of the Police Federation, urged the government to
take urgent stock of the research, saying he believed police would struggle to
cope with further disorder if budget cuts went ahead.

Nick Herbert, the policing minister, told BBC Radio 5 Live he believed the study
proved that what mattered was not the number of officers available but how
quickly they were mobilised.

"I think what the [Reading the Riots] report was saying is there were lessons to
be learned from that for individual forces and for our overall system to make
sure resources can be brought up [in times of emergency]," he said.

Herbert said the Guardian coverage was a "reminder of the considerable courage
that officers showed to regain order on the streets". He added: "But the number
of police support units that are trained to deal with riot situations is the
same today as it was last year.

"The total number of police officers that there are, on the latest official
figures, is still far higher than it was in the 1990s and the 1980s. The real
question for us is: bearing in mind that last year police numbers were still at
something of a record high, surely the learning is about how those resources
were used."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             738 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Young Witness

                                 April 3, 2014

Young's starring role

BYLINE: DANIELLA WHITE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 500  words


'Somebody famous once said, it's only by understanding the past you can shape
the future.'

For well known journalist and author Peter FitzSimons, this is what he hopes
will emerge from a documentary on race riots in Australia, which filmed a
segment in Young on Wednesday.

The crew were filming in Young as part of a three part series called The Great
Australian Race Riot to air on SBS early next year, which will feature the
Lambing Flat Riots, along with other race riots from 1846 to present day.

The documentary, directed by Sally Aitken and presented by Peter FitzSimons,
aims to reframe Australia's history of race riots as a vicious but vital part of
Australia's polity and progress.

They filmed at the Lambing Flat Museum, Tipperary Gully (now a small golf
course), the old court house, and the spot where the British Parliament's Riot
Act of 1714 was read.

Peter, who has published multiple books on Australian history, said the anti
Chinese Lambing Flat Riots were a formative moment in our nation's history.

Of particular interest to him was the Lambing Flat Roll Up banner, which is
housed in Young's Lambing Flat Museum.

He said it was one of the most significant textiles in Australia's history - in
essence a precursor to the White Australian Policy.

The banner was carried at the head of the procession of anti-Chinese rioters at
Lambing Flat in 1861.

'It's been fascinating to be here, particularly to see this flag,' Peter said.

'That flag represents two growing nations. One is nationhood, the other one is
the exclusion of non-white fellas. Put them together, you're going to get the
White Australia Policy.'

Peter said he had been enthralled by Young.

'It's been fascinating, it's part of a 32 day shoot, we're on our 23rd day and I
can tell you that Young's the most beautiful town we've been to,' he said.

Director Sally Aitken said they were attempting to put together an alternative
social history of Australia and show how such events can shape a nation.

'In the aftermath of a race riot, the ideals and values of the society are sort
of brought out into public debate and you see that in the likes of places like
Young,' she said.

'Sometimes that aftermath has lead to greater intolerance, and other times,
surprisingly it has made Australia a more tolerant place,' she said.

Young Historical Society president Brian James said although the Lambing Flat
Race Riots were an unsavory part of Australia's history, there were positives to
be gained from understanding them.

'Some of that history was very brutal, but history is history and cannot be
changed. During the anti- Chinese riots the Chinese were treated in a cruel and
brutal manner, whilst history cannot be denied we now like to stress the better
side of it.

'We celebrate the way in which the Chinese helped to develop the town and
district of Young but at the same time demonstrate what actually happened at the
time of the riots.'

The documentary, produced by Essential Media Entertainment, is set to air on SBS
around January, 2015.

LOAD-DATE: April 04, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             739 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

The Wire: Cossacks attack Pussy Riot; Ukraine in flames; vicious cruise assault;
Russian hockey collapse; tiger suicide fail

BYLINE: By Karl Kahler kkahler@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 973 words


Cossacks attack Pussy Riot in Sochi

Among all the possible bad outcomes for the punk protest group Pussy Riot in
Sochi, we didn't foresee an attack by the Cossacks with horsewhips. But as six
members of the ill-defined activist group appeared in their ski masks Wednesday
under a sign advertising the Winter Olympics and mocked Vladimir Putin, Cossack
security forces immediately showed up, beat them with horsewhips, ripped off
their masks, threw away their plastic guitar and left one man with blood on his
face -- but did not arrest anyone. AP says the group jumped up and down and
"sang-shouted" in Russian: "Putin will teach you how to love the motherland!"
The Cossacks, a remnant of czarist Russia used as elite security forces, moved
in using whips and apparently pepper spray. Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, who was
recently released from a prison sentence over a "punk protest" in Moscow's main
cathedral, was beaten with a whip as she lay on the ground in an attack that
lasted less than three minutes. Police arrived afterward and questioned
witnesses but made no arrests.

Ukraine in chaos and arming for worse

As riots in Ukraine left at least 25 dead and hundreds injured, the nation's
security agency accused protesters Wednesday of seizing hundreds of firearms
from its offices and announced a major anti-terrorist operation to restore
order. Meanwhile, protesters stood their ground against riot police on the main
square in Kiev and seized control of the central post office. Thousands of
activists armed with fire bombs and rocks have defended Independence Square,
known as the Maidan, against riot police armed with water cannon, stun grenades
and rubber bullets. Russian President Vladimir Putin telephoned Ukrainian
President Viktor Yanukovych overnight, reportedly urging a stronger crackdown on
demonstrations, while some European countries called for sanctions against the
Ukrainian government. "The revolution turned into a war with the authorities,"
said Vasyl Oleksenko, 57, a retired geologist from central Ukraine who fled
Tuesday night's violence fearing for his life, but returned to the square in the
morning. "We must fight this bloody, criminal leadership. We must fight for our
country, our Ukraine." President Barack Obama, in Mexico for talks with the
Mexican and Canadian leaders, urged the Ukrainian military to stay out of the
conflict, and warned that there would be unspecified "consequences" for violence
against peaceful protesters.

Cruise ship worker admits to brutalizing U.S. passenger

A cruise ship worker admitted to a bizarre attack on an American passenger in
which he beat her, sexually assaulted her, strangled her and attempted to throw
her overboard off the coast of Honduras, federal authorities said. Ketut
Pujayasa, 28, of Indonesia told investigators he tried to deliver breakfast to
the woman's room Friday and after he knocked three times she said, "Wait a
minute, son of a bitch!" FBI Special Agent David Nunez wrote in his report,
"Pujayasa stated that the passenger's comments of 'son of a bitch' was offensive
to himself and his parents. He was angry and upset the rest of the day." On
Friday night, while off duty, he used his master key to enter her room and hid
on her balcony. When the 31-year-old woman returned he attacked her, hitting her
with a curling iron and laptop, sexually assaulting her and trying to silence
her screams by choking her with a telephone cord, according to his confession.
The woman fought back, using a corkscrew to attack his exposed genitals, Nunez
wrote. Finally, he tried to throw her overboard but was interrupted by a knock
on her door. He fled her stateroom and was detained on the ship shortly
afterward. Pujayasa was jailed in Florida on attempted murder and aggravated
sexual abuse charges. The victim was flown by air ambulance to a hospital in
South Florida.

Russia's hockey hopes crushed by Finland

In a meltdown on ice that crushed the home crowd at the Sochi Olympics, the
Russian men's hockey team was eliminated Wednesday in a 3-1 loss to Finland.
Russia, a hockey-crazy country with several NHL greats, hasn't won the gold
since 1992, and its quarterfinal elimination on its own soil was a heartbreaker
to both the team and its fans. "Inside, I'm absolutely empty," said Pavel
Datsyuk of the Detroit Red Wings. Alex Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals said,
"We had a good start, score (on the) power play, feel pretty good. Few mistakes
cost us the game. We tried to score another one, but we didn't score. ... No
emotion right now." Things went much better Wednesday for skier Ted Ligety of
Park City Utah, who won the gold in the giant slalom, giving the U.S. ski team
its biggest victory in Sochi. "This is the event I wanted the most," said
Ligety, 29. "This is the event I have been putting so much pressure on myself to
win, so to pull through is an awesome feeling."

Tigers uncooperative in man's suicide attempt at Chinese zoo

A depressed man in China climbed into a Bengal tiger's enclosure in a Chinese
zoo and spent 20 minutes trying to goad the animals to eat him, but all they did
was smack him around a bit. Yang Jinhai, 27, was quoted by the Chengdu Business
Daily on the Sunday incident at Chengdu Zoo, "I asked them to bite me and let
them eat my meat, and so I did not fight back." Yang climbed a tree branch to
get into the enclosure, and shocked visitors watched as he made "exaggerated
movements" to provoke the white tigers. They scratched him and dragged him by
his collar, but the beasts declined to devour him. They tigers were tranquilized
so the man could be rescued, and he is now being treated for depression.

The Wire, a summary of top national and world news stories from the Associated
Press and other wire services, moves weekdays. Contact Karl Kahler at
408-920-5023; follow him attwitter.com/karl_kahler .

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Russian forward Yevgeni Malkin lies on the ice in the closing minutes
of the third period Wednesday in a men's quarterfinal hockey game that Finland
won 3-1 at Bolshoy Arena in Sochi, Russia, at the 2014 Winter Olympics. David J.
Phillip/AP Photo
Anti-government protesters use a catapult Wednesday to launch projectiles at
riot police in Kiev's Independence Square, the epicenter of Ukraine's unrest.
(Efrem Lukatsky/AP Photo)
A Cossack militiaman, horsewhip in hand, attacks members of the punk protest
group Pussy Riot, including Nadezhda Tolokonnikova in the blue balaclava and
Maria Alekhina in the pink, in downtown Sochi on Wednesday. Morry Gash/AP Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             740 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 20, 2012 Friday

Miss Congeniality guilty plea delayed over court TV

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S2

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


A former beauty queen contestant has become the second person who's offering to
plead guilty to charges in the Stanley Cup riot, only to have the case delayed
over arguments about allowing TV cameras in the courtroom.

Sophie Laboissonniere, 20, of Richmond, B.C., is accused of break and enter and
taking part in a riot.

The Crown has applied to have the case broadcast on TV as it plans to do with
others accused of taking part in the riot last June 15.

Ms. Laboissonniere's lawyer, David Baker, says his application opposing cameras
will delay the guilty plea and sentencing and waste court resources in the
process.

"Were it not for the Crown's application I probably would have already entered a
plea and had a date for sentencing set," he said outside court.

In a posting on her now-defunct blog, Ms. Laboissonniere said she was crowned
Miss Congeniality at a Miss Coastal Vancouver pageant last year.

She's accused of helping loot the downtown London Drugs store during the riot
that broke out after the Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley Cup final to the
Boston Bruins.

Mr. Baker says she's doing everything she can to atone for her public mistakes
but suffers through more media attention than others because of her beauty queen
past.

The first person to plead guilty in the riot, Ryan Dickinson, will also have his
case delayed over the issue of cameras in the court after his lawyer told court
Tuesday that he will challenge the Crown application to broadcast the
proceedings.

Mr. Dickinson pleaded guilty to participating in a riot and breach of
recognizance related to a previous assault charge.

Ms. Laboissonniere and Mr. Dickinson are among 30 people who have been charged
so far with riot-related offences.

However, Vancouver police have recommend charges against 70 others and say
hundreds of people could eventually be charged in the riot that caused millions
of dollars in damage to businesses.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             741 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

Front: The riots: Policing: Police access to BlackBerry system 'disrupted
riots': Met scoured suspects' phones to thwart attacks Force lacked power to
turn off message sites, MPs told

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd Crime correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 572 words


Scotland Yard stopped attacks by rioters at sites across London hours before
they were due to happen after managing to "break into" encrypted social
messaging sites, it has emerged. Attacks on the Olympics site, the two Westfield
shopping centres, and stores in Oxford Circus, had been plotted using BlackBerry
Messenger (BBM), police said.

Detectives made the breakthrough shortly before the planned attacks after
scouring the mobile phones of people who had been arrested during the riots. The
move gave them access to messages planning riots and looting, which were
bouncing around the heavily encrypted BBM service; it also gave the Metropolitan
police other information, enabling officers to have "live-time monitoring" of
BBM and Twitter, with the benefit of details gained from seized phones.

By Monday afternoon, on 8 August, police were able to monitor BlackBerry
messaging and send extra officers to disrupt planned attacks.

Yesterday police revealed they had considered switching off such social
messaging sites as BBM and Twitter.

But testifying before MPs on the home affairs committee, the acting Met police
commissioner, Tim Godwin, said police discovered they did not have the legal
powers to do so. "We did consider seeking the legal authority to switch it off.
The legality is questionable, very questionable."

He said that social messaging sites, besides being used to plan riots, were a
useful "intelligence asset" for police able to monitor them. Police chiefs sent
officers to thwart the planned attacks on the Olympic site in Stratford, east
London, and shops in the area were also closed after "intelligence" was obtained
from social messaging sites of conspiracies to riot.

Godwin said police were not "at this moment of time" asking the government for
new powers to turn off social messaging sites during extreme disorder.

This week the Guardian revealed that the government had drafted in MI5 and the
eavesdropping centre at GCHQ to join the hunt for those using social messaging
to plot riots, and to work out how BlackBerry messaging could be "cracked" in
future, and if needed, in real time.

Godwin told MPs beginning their investigation into the riots that David Cameron
had been wrong to tell the Commons last week that his officers had been too
timid when faced with rioters and looters.

Confirming that he would apply to be the Met's next commissioner, he said: "I do
not believe that the men and the women of the Met were timid, which is an
accusation that has been levelled at us."

Sir Hugh Orde, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said
during his evidence that the police had no inkling the riots would erupt. "What
we saw, fundamentally different in my assessment, was almost nonexistent
pre-intelligence. This was spontaneous rather than organised," he said.

The police chiefs again rejected the government's claim that they had quelled
riots by ordering a surge of officers. Godwin said he took the decision last
Monday evening after finding officers still being overrun as riots hit 22 of the
32 London boroughs. The Met needed help from 30 other forces.

Orde told politicians they legally had no role in setting tactics. "If
politicians want to make tactical decisions, they must take the responsibility
and change the law to make that happen," he said.

Captions:

Onlookers use phones to record events in Hackney, London, during last week's
riots Photograph: Michael Bowles/Rex Features

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             742 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright (c) 2005 State Bar of Montana
                               The Montana Lawyer

                          December, 2005/January, 2006

                              31 Montana Lawyer 8

LENGTH: 245 words

FEATURE: BOOK: SOME HEAVY LEGAL READING TO USHER IN 2006: GETTING INSIDE
MONTANA'S '59 STATE-PRISON RIOT

"In Deer Lodge, to the great misfortune of Ted Rothe and Floyd Powell and two
dozen guards and other staff who would work the day of April 16, 1959, Jerry
Myles went back to a regular cell in Cell House 1, where he fell into company
with Lee Smart, his young friend. It was a dangerous combination: Myles, no
longer a watched man, and Smart, loving trouble and dreaming of the free road."
(Excerpt from the book)

Jerry's Riot: The True Story of Montana's 1959 Prison Disturbance, by Kevin S.
Giles, Sky Blue Waters Press, 2005 ISBN 1-59113-718-7. Book available on
amazon.com.

TEXT:

    [*8]  In "Jerry's Riot," Kevin Giles, a former Montana newspaper reporter
and editor, captures the clash between career convict Jerry Myles, who had done
time at Alcatraz Island and other federal and state prisons, and Warden Floyd
Powell. Both men were new to Deer Lodge.

   Myles wanted to run the prison. Powell wanted to reform it.

   That conflict came to a violent climax on April 16, 1959, when Myles and
accomplices Lee Smart and George Alton seized rifles from the guard catwalks in
both cell houses.

   "THIS IS A STORY of men in crisis," Mr. Giles said of his 464-page book,
which he spent 10 years researching and writing.

   "Despite all the news coverage of the riot over those three days in 1959,
little was said or understood about the reasons for it," he said. "The riot tore
apart many of the men involved and brought anguish to their families."

   "Jerry's Riot" recounts Myles's childhood and his long prison history. It
also examines the circumstances leading to the 1959 riot, including the 1957
"pea riot" disturbance. Mr. Giles describes the riot, including the taking of 26
hostages, in painstaking detail.

   MONTANA'S 1959 PRISON RIOT was one of the most dramatic events in state
history. News accounts were widely published statewide and across the country,
including in major newspapers and magazines. The riot, one of the last of many
state prison riots in the 1950s, became an icon of sweeping prison reform in
Montana and elsewhere.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCriminal OffensesMiscellaneous OffensesRiot, Rout &
Unlawful AssemblyGeneral OverviewCriminal Law & ProcedureJuvenile
OffendersSentencingConfinement Practices


                             743 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                  June 1, 1998

Race, riots and a fairer city

BYLINE: It Is 40 Years Since Nottingham'S 'Race Riots' Sent Shockwaves Through
The City And The Nation. Following The Start Of Bbc Tv'S New Programme,
Windrush, Charting Britain'S History Of Race Relations, Mark Patterson Examines
Both Sides Of The Legacy Of The Disturbances.

SECTION: Communities & Population: Race Relations, Pg.6/7

LENGTH: 1833 words


THE Nottingham riots of August, 1958, were described at the time as 'the most
alarming incident that has taken place in this country'.

Certainly in terms of race relations, they were. The fighting that broke out
between up to 1,500 blacks and whites in the St Ann's Well Road area late on the
Saturday night of August 23, and which ended with at least eight people in
hospital, sent shockwaves through Britain - and other nations.

Nottingham and the rest of the nation had never seen anything like it - a full
blown 'race riot', a running street battle in which people were punched, kicked,
stabbed, bottled, even run over.

Forty years on, it seems apparent that - regardless of whatever specific
incident sparked the disturbances - the riots were the result of white hostility
to the presence of the new West Indian immigrants in Nottingham and the
immigrants' own growing resentment of that hostility.

The word immigration itself - as in coming to live in a foreign country - is
something of a misnomer as the West Indians who began settling in Britain in
large numbers from 1948 had been invited to what, hostile as it could be, was
not 'foreign' but the mother country.

It is often said that they had learned more in school about the history of
Britain than about their own countries.

But while there are still disagreements as to the immediate cause of the
disturbances, one fact emerges clearly from the memories and newspaper reports -
the St Ann's riots were a battle between black and white, with mistrust and
suspicion on both sides.

"Looking back with hindsight there was very little else that could have been
done," says Len Garrison, former director of the Association of Caribbean
Families and Friends in Hyson Green.

"People felt afraid. There was no other way out. I suspect that if they hadn't
taken action the problems would exist today. There was a colour bar. People talk
about the time one man walked into a pub, was standing there and was not being
served. After waiting for some time he went round the bar and served himself. If
you read some accounts, the authorities themselves were saying, 'Don't worry
about it, they'll (the immigrants) be gone in a few years' time because they
won't be able to withstand the weather'."

Nottingham and District Racial Equality Council's chairman, Milton Crosdale,
says: "I wasn't in this country in 1958. But the reverberations of the 1958
disturbances were still fresh in people's minds when I came here in 1960."

Almost a decade later, the riots still cast a spell over Britain in its
continuing debate about race and immigration. Enoch Powell made his infamous
'Rivers of Blood' speech in 1968, of which one book comments: "In a popular
culture still haunted by the memories of the Nottingham and Notting Hill riots
his words were electric."

With hindsight it is also clear that the riots had both negative and positive
consequences in the short and long term.

The negative effects were felt immediately.

When news of the riots filtered to London via the press on the Sunday morning,
groups of Teddy Boys in the capital began seeking out black victims. Soon the
Notting Dale area (now part of Notting Hill) was in flames with riots and street
battles that were much larger in scale and more violent than the events in
Nottingham.

The riots succeeded in putting Nottingham on the map in the worst possible
sense; another immediate ghoulish consequence was that bus companies in other
counties offered coach trips to 'the terror spots of Nottingham'.

Mike and Trevor Phillips, authors of a new book titled Windrush - The
Irresistible Rise of Multi-Racial Britain further say that, in the East
Midlands, "there was no widespread sense of guilt or sympathy for the migrants"
in the riots' aftermath.

But ultimately, while some people may believe that the riots were events best
forgotten, and not picked over again, they also had less negative consequences
in the long run.

The authors of Windrush, for example, which devotes several pages to the riots
and ties in with the BBC TV series of the same name, point out that on the
weekend after the riots, a large white crowd gathered again in the area of St
Ann's Well Road, expecting another battle. No blacks turned up and the crowd
began fighting among itself.

They write: "At the time, nearly all the commentators, focused as they were on
race, missed the point, which was that if there were no black people available
on whom to focus their rage, the crowds were equally willing to fight each
other.

"In that sense it was apparent that the riots were as much about the feelings of
exclusion and deprivation experienced by a wide section of the English
population as they were about the presence of black migrants.

"The attention that the disturbances claimed for the conditions in which the
people lived was, in itself, a factor calming the city."

Milton Crosdale adds: "There was an element of poverty in Nottingham for a long
time. There still is. The extent of the deprivation was such that it didn't
surprise me that a group of Teddy Boys decided to knock two bells out of each
other."

In other words, the riots inadvertently focused attention on housing and living
standards in St Ann's.

And in the early 1970s, the old St Ann's, with its back-to-back terraced streets
where immigrants had uncomfortably shared space with outrightly hostile Teddy
Boy gangs, were demolished in the city's slum clearance programme.

Activist George Powe, who helped found the Afro-Caribbean Centre in St Ann's,
believes the riots publicly exposed Nottingham's racial problems, forcing
matters of discrimination in employment, for example, into the open for the
first time. It also gave campaigners an aim to peacefully fight for - equal
opportunities.

"What we decided to fight for was equal opportunities," he says. "It was clearly
the challenge and what we were saying was: 'If you're qualified for the job you
should have a job just like anybody else.'

A more immediate consequence was the appointment, in 1959, of prominent
Nottingham Jamaican Eric Irons as liaison officer to work with 'coloured people'
in Nottingham, a move regarded as a means of giving immigrants a better public
voice. It was he who also met officials from the Caribbean when they came to
Nottingham to investigate the riots.

They were the visitors who described the riots as "the most alarming incident
that has happened in this country".

Even more significantly, in 1962 Mr Irons became the city's, and Britain's,
first black magistrate. In a long and prestigious career, Mr Irons, who still
lives in Top Valley, was also awarded the OBE, the Jamaican Government's Medal
and served as Notts Education Authority's Adviser for Commonwealth Communities.
He retired from the bench in 1991.

Mr Crosdale believes the riots had several other major consequences - in helping
to open up the jobs market for immigrants and by focusing attention on
Nottingham City Council's public housing policy, which he says discriminated
against black people at least into the 1970s. Stacking the Decks, a book by Alan
Simpson, now a city MP, backs up that claim.

Mr Crosdale said: "Up to 1958 you had a number of people from Caribbean
countries in this city. They had jobs but they had difficulty finding a place to
live or they were in multiple occupation. People from the Caribbean were being
shepherded into St Ann's and The Meadows. You had people crowded into old St
Ann's, most of them living in multiple occupation.

"Nottingham, unlike other cities, went on to knock down major estates such as
The Meadows. Derby didn't knock down whole areas and rebuild them. Leicester
didn't do it. It had a significant effect on the redistribution of people in the
city."

Immigrants were also asking why some major employers, such as Raleigh, employed
so few black people.

"People were saying: 'Why are we buying products from these people if they don't
employ us? We won't buy your bicycles at all.' That was the first time economic
pressure was put on important companies."

By the late 1960s, Raleigh had a "significant" number of black employees on the
workforce.

"For me, the most significant thing was about how the employment market was
being opened up. People began to realise that there was a serious problem. Who
would have thought there would have been riots in Nottingham? Riots on their
doorsteps? You can talk about prejudice but if it doesn't affect them in their
front rooms it doesn't matter. You can get away from it. It's like famine in
Africa. It's only when it's on a TV picture and you're eating a meal in your
front room that it affects you."

The obvious implication that the riots were the result of a singular lack of
communication between black and white communities paved the way for greater
understanding, Mr Crosdale believes.

"There was a great number of white liberal people who were prepared to move from
passive support to much more pro-active support. The change in this city owes a
great deal to the accommodation of people of good will. Without that good will,
we would not have effected change."

Mr Crosdale believes, too, that the Nottingham disturbances had a part to play
in the formulation of national legislation covering racial discrimination.

The riots, and those in other cities such as London, contributed to the dawning
public acceptance that racism - or 'colour prejudice' as it was then called -
did exist, and had to be dealt with under the law. This led eventually to the
various Race Relations Acts.

This was in an era - the 1960s - when issues of immigration, race, or 'colour'
were being hotly debated. The first Act, introduced by the Labour Government in
1965, banned racial discrimination in public places and introduced penalties
against incitement to racial hatred.

On the other hand, the same debate also led to restrictions on immigration
announced in 1961, which in turn led to huge increases in the number of
immigrants arriving in Britain because they wanted to beat the ban.  Immigrants
from India and Pakistan leapt from 3,000 in 1959 to 48,000 in 1961. West Indian
immigrants rocketed from 16,000 to 66,000 in the same period. Cypriot
immigration quadrupled.

Ultimately, activists such as George Powe believe the St Ann's riots helped
expose - in the ugliest way possible - the fact that Britain had a social
problem which needed to be addressed.

The various Race Relations Acts passed over the last 40 years were just one
aspect of the move towards greater acceptance and understanding which has made
Nottingham the multi-cultural city it is today.

"It highlighted some problems but the main thing was agitation by various
groups," says Mr Powe. "They were very sympathetic in the labour movement and
that helped us fight. It wasn't just the one thing that helped bring the
change."

- Grateful acknowledgement to Windrush - The Irresistible Rise of Multi-Racial
Britain, by Mike and Trevor Phillips. HarperCollins, GBP 16.99.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TROUBLED TIMES: The old St Ann's before the terraces were pulled
down,and Evening Post headlines from the time of the disturbances. ABOVE: Milton
Crosdale, the chairman of the Nottingham Racial Equality Council, at his office
on Lower Parliament Street

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post


                             744 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Oklahoman

                              May 17, 2005 Tuesday
                                  City Edition

Race-riot recourse blocked ;
Supreme Court refuses appeal after decisions.

BYLINE: Chris Casteel and Jay Marks, Staff Writers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 715 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. Supreme Court declined Monday to hear an appeal from 1921 Tulsa race
riot victims and their descendants who wanted to sue the city and the state of
Oklahoma for damages inflicted on the city's black people and business district.

Without comment, the high court rejected the case, effectively affirming
decisions by two federal courts that victims waited too long to file claims.

"The justice system has once again denied the survivors of the 1921 Tulsa race
riots what they so richly deserve after 84 years of concealment and suppression
of evidence: their day in court," said Charles Ogletree, who represents the
survivors.

Tulsa Deputy City Attorney Larry Simmons said the court's decision was not
unexpected because of earlier rulings.

"Clearly they separated the legal from the emotional issues," said Weldon Poe,
assistant state attorney general.

The victims and descendants filed their appeal here with some fanfare -- a news
conference on the steps of the U.S. Supreme Court in March. And, last week, some
of the survivors described their memories of the riot to members of the
Congressional Black Caucus.

Alternatives sought With Monday's appeal rejection, the case's hundreds of named
plaintiffs now must look for other remedies.

"These survivors will not be deterred, nor will those who continue to offer them
our unequivocal support," Ogletree said. "We will continue this fight in every
venue imaginable and are not going to stop seeking justice."

The case originally was filed in federal district court in Tulsa in February
2003; the lawsuit against the city and state of Oklahoma claimed civil rights
violations and said the state's typical two-year limitation on filing such cases
shouldn't apply because of a vast cover-up in the riot's aftermath.

The victims and descendants, backed by a group of historians who filed a brief
in the case, claimed hard evidence of the complicity of the Tulsa police and the
National Guard in the 1921 carnage wasn't available until a special Oklahoma
commission investigated the riot and issued a report in 2001.

But the district judge granted the motion by the city and the state to dismiss
the case, ruling victims had time between the riot and the commission's report
80 years later to determine the city's responsibility and file claims.

The 10th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the suit's dismissal, stating there had
been ample time to file a lawsuit, particularly after Congress passed civil
rights legislation in the 1960s and after a book about the riot was published in
1982.

"In fact, plaintiffs neither allege nor even imply that they were prohibited
from accessing the courts in the 1970s, 1980s, or 1990s," the appeals court
wrote.

"The Tulsa Race Riot represents a tragic chapter in our collective history.
While we have found no legal avenue exists through which Plaintiffs can bring
their claims, we take no great comfort in that conclusion."

The riot victims and descendants were represented by Ogletree, a Harvard
University Law professor who also provided legal advice to Anita Hill during
1991 Senate hearings related to Justice Clarence Thomas.

The Tulsa riot -- touched off by rumors a black man had assaulted a white woman
-- began May 31, 1921. A mob of white people, many deputized by the Tulsa
police, shot black residents and destroyed the then thriving Greenwood district.
The official death toll when the riot ended the next day was 37, though it has
been estimated that more than 300 people were killed.

The National Guard was called in and, according to accounts, essentially enabled
the white mob by arresting blacks and preventing them from defending themselves
and their homes.

Arguing to the Supreme Court against hearing claims for damages now, Tulsa city
attorneys noted that hundreds of claims were filed against the city in the years
immediately after the riot.

Those claims were dismissed, but the Tulsa attorneys say they at least show the
black community believed then that the city "acted with conspiratorial lust and
zeal to direct destruction upon Tulsa's African American community."

However, the Tulsa attorneys wrote in a brief with the Supreme Court, "unlike
the hundreds who filed claims and lawsuits in 1923, the (victims and descendants
now suing) waited more than 80 years before taking any civil action to pursue
their legal rights."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             745 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 24, 2011 Monday

UK riots analysis reveals gangs did not play pivotal role

BYLINE: Alan Travisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 419 words

ABSTRACT

Official figures show those arrested came from deprived backgrounds, striking a
blow to theory that tackling gang culture is key to preventing repeat of
disturbances

FULL TEXT

Gangs did not play a pivotal role in the August riots, according to the latest
official analysis of those arrested during the disturbances.

The official figures show that 13% of those arrested in the riots have been
identified as gang members, rising to 19% in London, but the analysis shows that
even where the police identified gang members being present most forces believe
they did not play a pivotal role.

The finding by senior Whitehall officials is a blow to the principle response to
the riots being pushed strongly by the work and pensions secretary, Iain Duncan
Smith - that tackling gang culture is key to preventing any repeat of the
disturbances.

The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Home Office background analysis show that
those arrested during the riots overwhelmingly came from deprived areas and had
the poorest educational backgrounds.

More than two-thirds of the young people involved were classed as having special
educational needs and one-third had been excluded from school in the past year.
More than 42% were in receipt of free school meals.

The analysis shows that the ethnic backgrounds of those brought before the
courts for riot-related offences were in line with the local population, with
42% of defendants white and 46% black. Only 7% were Asian.

But the ethnic composition of court defendants was significantly different from
the local area profile in three places: Haringey in north London, where 55% of
defendants were black compared with 17% of young people locally; Nottingham,
where 62% of defendants were black compared with 9% locally, and Birmingham,
where 46% of defendants were black compared with 9% of young people locally.

The Home Office figures were based on 5,175 crimes recorded across 19 police
forces - the vast majority in London, Manchester and Birmingham. More than 40%
happened within town or city centres and 20% within shopping malls or other
"defined retail cores" in the town centres.

Half the crimes were committed against commercial premises. A total of 2,584
shops and other commercial premises were targeted in the riots.

The MoJ figures confirm that 90% of those arrested in the riots were male. More
than half were under 20. They also confirm the more punitive nature of the
courts, with 42% of those tried in magistrates courts sent to prison compared
with only 12% normally.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             746 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday

Auditions planned for three-act play about Springfield 1908 race riot

BYLINE: PETE SHERMAN STAFF WRITER / pete.sherman@sj-r.com

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 458 words


Auditions for a dramatization of the Springfield 1908 race riot scheduled for
August at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Museum will start at 9 a.m. Saturday
at the Sixth Street annex on the Springfield College in Illinois-Benedictine
University campus.

"Paint it Red: What happens when a city's soul is tried?" is the working title
of the show, a tentative three-act play that will run for free during the
evenings of Aug. 15 and 16 in the presidential museum's Union Theater.

Two acts will feature "voices from the grave" narration by actors taking on the
roles of key riot figures.

Another act will be a mock trial centered on the case of Abe Raymer, the only
one of more than 100 indicted riot suspects convicted of anything. Raymer, who
was tried for murder among other charges, was found guilty of only petty
larceny.

The event's primary sponsor is the Citizens Club of Springfield, which was
approached by the city's race riot commission to sponsor an event commemorating
the riot.

The August 1908 riot began when a white mob's attempt to lynch two black
Sangamon County Jail inmates was thwarted. Enraged, the mob then destroyed
dozens of black homes and businesses. After two days of rioting, hundreds were
injured and seven were dead, including two black men who had been lynched.

Afterward, a group of civil rights activists, appalled that such an event could
take place in Abraham Lincoln's hometown, began meetings that led to the
formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

Bill Logan Jr. of the Citizens Club said members wanted to focus on the riot
story, but in a way that wouldn't turn people off.

"This is not so much a speech talking at people, but something more educational
and lighter in nature," Logan said. "We didn't want to threaten people or do
in-your-face kind of things."

That said, Logan emphasized the importance of remembering the riot.

"One good reason: I'm 65 and born and raised in Springfield," Logan said. "I
never knew about the race riot. It was like Springfield's greatest secret.
People pretended it didn't exist. There's still people today who don't know what
happened in 1908, how it happened, why it happened.

"It was a shameful affair in our history, but it happened. But we don't say
let's not talk about it. We talk about it only to say never again."

The August performances will be directed by Valerie Parga, who currently is
working on July performances of "The Elephant Man" at the Theatre in the Park in
Lincoln's New Salem State Historic Site.

Saturday's auditions call for 25 men, five women and five non-gender specified
roles. Actors should be at least 16 years old.

For more information about the Springfield 1908 race riot, visit
www.sj-r.com/raceriot.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             747 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 22, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Riot report 'a marching order' for L.A.

BYLINE: Haya El Nasser; Sally Ann Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Webster Commission's scathing report on the April 29 riots focuses on this
city's failure to quell the violence - but its findings are an alarm for all big
cities.

The special panel appointed to investigate Los Angeles' handling of the
deadliest riots in U.S. history blamed every level of city government for lack
of planning and cooperation.

It also outlined a long list of riot-prevention strategies. Among them: Beef up
foot patrols and improve the LAPD's relations with minorities.

''What we have seen gives us cause for grave concern,'' said the report,
released Wednesday. ''Neither the city nor the LAPD had a real plan for what to
do in this emergency.''

Former FBI and CIA director William Webster, head of the panel named by the
civilian Police Commission, predicts the report ''will enter the body of law
enforcement literature and will be used by cities around the country.''

Already, Dallas Police Chief William Rathburn is calling for a national riot
police squad - similar to forces in many countries, including France.

''A part-time National Guard is not the solution,'' said Rathburn, former Los
Angeles deputy police chief. ''It's time we rethink our prohibition on the use
of regular military in an urban emergency.''

Rathburn believes riots could ignite in any big city. But nowhere is the threat
more potent than in the City of Angels.

Two controversial trials inch toward the courtroom: Four black defendants
accused of beating white trucker Reginald Denny at the riot's flashpoint; and
the federal civil rights trial of the four white officers acquitted of using
excessive force against King - a verdict that sparked the riots.

Former Police Commission President Melanie Lomax says the report's conclusions
that the city has no riot emergency plan is ''a marching order of the most
critical dimension.''

Los Angeles is too vulnerable to ignore the warnings, she says. That's why, as
the report was released, city leaders scrambled to push their plans.

Police Chief Willie Williams is reaching out to neighboring cities' police and
fire departments and community leaders to draft a regional riot response plan.
He also plans to move up to 150 desk officers out of police headquarters and
into the streets by year's end.

''We will be better prepared,'' Williams promises. ''Whatever comes up,
everybody will have input.''

Mayor Tom Bradley, criticized for talking about the potential for rioting but
doing little to prevent it, ordered administrators to start drafting an
emergency plan.

Councilman Zev Yaroslavsky quickly put forward his own solutions: Ask the courts
to give the city 24 hours' notice before a verdict is read in a controversial
trial; imposing a citywide curfew the same day.

Yaroslavsky wants voters to pass a property tax hike that would pay for 1,000
more police on the streets, and a bond issue for a new 911 system.

But the city could be a long way from unity. Bradley steps down next year.
Several council members are eyeing his job.

''It's an election year,'' says Connie Rice, of the NAACP Legal Defense and
Educational Fund. ''It's very tough to get the right thinking.''

Contributing: Jonathan T. Lovitt

WHAT THE REPORT SAID

Left only 4% of officers on the street; did not have anti-riot plan; let
officers go home at the end of their shifts despite angry crowds in the streets;
failed to exercise control of situation.

Failed to repair a ''complete rupture'' of relationship with Chief Daryl Gates;
failed to ensure police department had a plan for civil unrest; failed to seek
help from neighboring police departments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; b/w, Hal Garb, Agence France-Presse; PHOTO; b/w, Fred Prouser,
Reuters; PHOTO; b/w, John Duricka, AP

CUTLINE: UP IN FLAMES: National Guard members watch as a business burns in south
central Los Angeles April 30. Rioting from April 29 to May 4 left 53 people
dead, and up to $ 1 billion in damage. CUTLINE: POLICE CHIEF DARYL GATES
CUTLINE: MAYOR TOM BRADLEY

THE NATION; See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                             748 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 28, 1987 Tuesday

Kelowna revellers prepared for a riot, RCMP officer says

BYLINE: CP

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: KELOWNA, B.C.


Canadian Press
  KELOWNA, B.C.

Revellers at the annual Kelowna Regatta planned to riot and prepared
for it by bringing rocks in car trunks, an RCMP spokesman said yesterday.

'This was a very planned incident,' Inspector David Kilcup told a  news
conference. 'They came for a riot.'     Insp. Kilcup said police reported seeing
'trunkloads of rocks' as  thousands gathered under hot, sunny skies for the
annual regatta, a  popular festival of sailing and other water sports on
Okanagan Lake.

It was the second consecutive year the regatta in this Okanagan city
about 300 kilometres east of Vancouver was the scene of a riot. City
officials had hoped to avoid a repeat of last year's melee that saw more
than 100 people arrested.

Police began making routine arrests Saturday night for drinking
offences, but the crowds got ugly when officers moved in to arrest one
young man, who eventually escaped.

'There were people on the street chanting, 'Let's riot, let's riot,'  ' RCMP
Superintendent Graham George said.

As rioters hurled rocks and beer bottles, police battled back with tear
gas and dogs. A helicopter equipped with a spotlight circled over the main
street and a high-powered water cannon was pressed into use.

The riot began just after midnight Saturday night, but because police
thought it was unsafe, Kelowna Mayor Jim Stuart did not read the riot act
until two hours later. He did so through a loudspeaker inside a police
van.

Although the streets were cleared about dawn, isolated incidents,
considered normal during the regatta weekend, resulted in a few more
arrests Sunday night and early yesterday.

Arrests at the height of the disturbance came so furiously the drunk
tank was filled and emptied three times. Most of those arrested were
charged with breaching the peace and released.

'I don't think it's fair to suggest that the police over-reacted,'  Insp. Kilcup
said.

Edward Ladner, 21, said a line of riot police swept down one alley with
two policemen behind firing tear gas. 'They were beating in rhythm on
their shields,' he said.

Police said yesterday 148 people were arrested. About 60 were from
Kelowna and the others from as far away as Vancouver and Calgary. Most
were between 17 and 23.

Police said they expected to formally charge about 20 people by early
today, including one believed to have instigated the riot.

Three city policemen and four Vernon RCMP sustained minor injuries. A
Kelowna auxiliary policeman suffered back injuries when he was pushed over
a wall and then jumped on.

Initial reports put the weekend damage - mostly smashed display windows
- at less than last year's total of $250,000. Unlike the 1986 disturbance,
there was no reported looting, although many store windows were smashed.

The 71-member RCMP detachment was bolstered this year by Mounties from
nearby Vernon, bringing the number of police on the streets during the
riot Sunday morning to as many as 110.

Asked if he would consider cancelling the 81-year-old regatta next
year, Mr. Stuart said: 'You can't hold the merchants and citizens at
ransom. It's not fair.'

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1987 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             749 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Modi's SITcom

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 452 words


AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) has done
much more than just giving a clean chit to Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi
on allegations of his involvement in the 2002 riots. Not only does the report,
submitted by SIT chairman RK Raghavan, exonerate Modi from the criminal charge
of conspiracy and facilitating riots, it goes an extra mile to explain the
efforts of an "awfully busy" Modi to protect the riot-affected and offer them
relief and rehabilitation.

Experts say the closure report is very different in spirit than the first report
submitted by SIT member A K Malhotra, who had questioned Modi's actions on
several counts including allegedly deputing cabinet ministers in police control
rooms and his negligence towards the riot-affected . Raghavan's report claims
Modi visited Gulbarg Society and Naroda Patia, which witnessed two of the worst
massacres during the riots, and relief camps on March 5 and 6, 2002.

Stating that the Army was called in well in time, the report further says, "The
CM was awfully busy with the steps to control the law and order situation,
providing medical treatment to the riot victims, their rehabilitation, giving
ex-gratia payment to the riot affect, NGO relief camps and with the payment of
compensation for destruction of properties during the riots, and also with his
efforts to restore peace and normalcy in the state."

The closure report admits that the state government was wrong in not banning the
BJP-supported VHP bandh on February 28, 2002, but in the same breath adds it
doesn't amount to conspiracy. On charges of Modi issuing illegal instructions to
allow Hindus to vent their anger, the SIT states, "The chief minister emphasized
that miscreants (in the train carnage case) should be apprehended and not
allowed to escape. He was also concerned about the number of causalities in the
incident. The CM had given directions that steps should be taken not to delay
medical help for passengers and also to impose curfew to avoid any untoward
incident, Godhra being a communally sensitive place." The SIT has also
recommended to close the case by dubbing Zakia Jafri's complaint full of
discrepancies and vague accusations, not specific allegation against
individuals. "IPS officer Rahul Sharma is shown as accused person, though Sharma
is also the prime witness," it says.

Activists allege the SIT stand has softened on Modi's controversial speech in
Becharaji where he allegedly tried to incite sentiments with his "Hum paanch,
humare pachchis... " remark, during Gujarat Gaurav Yatra in 2002. While SIT took
a more harsh view in 2010, it decided to go easy on the remarks two years later.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             750 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

JAILED FOR PLOT TO STIR UP RIOTS USING FACEBOOK;
Father-of-two given three years

BYLINE: Mark Naylor

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words


A FACEBOOK plotter who tried to stir up riots in Grimsby at the height of the
wave of disorder across the country has been jailed for three years.

Martin Hartshorn, 22, of Comber Place, Grimsby, admitted encouraging or
assisting a riot and publishing inflammatory racist material on August 9.
Jonathan Sandiford, prosecuting, told Grimsby Crown Court that a wave of riots
and serious public disorder was sweeping through towns and cities at the time.
Police were monitoring a Facebook community page saying: "Not rioting in Grimsby
but it's already a s***hole".

At the height of the riots, Hartshorn posted a message saying: "Whose up for a
riot tonight in town?" He made racist comments, including "Let's do our riot
different.

Let's burn all the Paki shops and takeaways." He later added: "And the Islamic
centre.

We can't forget that."

Simon Hirst, mitigating, said father-of-two Hartshorn had been out of trouble
for four years. He had been watching You-Tube coverage of the riots and became
angry because he believed that much of the trouble was being caused by Asians.
He admitted he was not joking in his Facebook comments and meant what he said.
He bitterly regretted his actions and had been in custody for 83 days.

Judge David Tremberg told Hartshorn: "There is no place for such vile and
sinister racist remarks and racially inflammatory material."

Hartshorn's imprisonment comes hot on the heels of the sentencing of two men
from Cheshire, who were sent to prison for four years each after admitting to
using the site to incite disorder during the riots.

Sentencing Jordan Blackshaw, 21, and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan, 22, Judge Elgan
Edwards, said he hoped the sentences would act as a deterrent to others.

And Detective Sergeant Dave Pattison, from Humberside Police, has also warned
people to take extra care when posting on social networking websites.

He said: "We have seen incidents in our area recently which have led to the
general public viewing material and taking matters into their own hands.

"This could lead to whoever posted the material facing charges for inciting that
activity, even if the outcome was not as they intended it to be.

"In this instance, Mr Hartshorne has been charged following a number of posts he
made in which he tried to influence other people in order to cause problems."

This jailing follows a high-profile incident last month in Grimsby when a gang
gathered outside the home of Jonathan Bloomfield, in Stanley Street, after
footage which allegedly showed him beating a Staffordshire Bull Terrier was
posted on Facebook.? Turn to pages eight and nine for more on the impact of
social media.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOCKED UP: Hartshorn made 'vile and sinister racist remarks'.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2011 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


                             751 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

Program to include race riot documentary viewing

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 217 words


A documentary on the 1908 Springfield Race Riot, "Springfield Had No Shame,"
will be shown during a special program at 5 p.m. Wednesday in the multi-purpose
room of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library, Sixth and Jefferson streets.

The event is free and open to the public.

The 30-minute film will be followed by several presentations relating to the
riot. Local singer/songwriter Chas Blythe will provide musical selections he has
written about the riot.

Author Melinda McDonald will read excerpts from her book "Water and Fire," which
focuses on a young woman, Sheba Tully, who is a maid for Susan Lawrence Dana.
The book follows Sheba as she observes the events in Springfield leading up to
the 1908 race riot.

Author Dennis Camp will give a presentation on poet and author Vachel Lindsay
and his relationship to the riot. Lindsay artifacts from the ALPL's collection
will be displayed during the evening.

The June 18 program is related to the exhibit, "Something So Horrible: The
Springfield Race Riot of 1908," which opens Saturday at the ALPL.

New volunteer orientation for anyone who is interested will be held at 5:30 p.m.
Tuesday in the ALPL classroom. Training sessions following the orientation will
be held June 24 and July 1 and 8, all at 5:30 p.m., in the library multi-purpose
room.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LOCAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The State Journal-Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             752 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday

Battle over Bluestar rages 30 years on

BYLINE: Manjeet Sehgal in Chandigarh

LENGTH: 559  words


EVEN as many families who lost their kin in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots are yet to
get justice, various political parties have only paid lip service and
politicised the episode in the last three decades.

For the Sikh community, Operation Bluestar and the 1984 anti-Sikh riots are two
painful episodes whose wounds refuse to heal. The wounds were reopened by both
the Congress and the BJP when they traded barbs on the twin events in the run-up
this year's general elections.

Unfortunately, the war of words has heated up just ahead of the 30th anniversary
of Operation Bluestar this Friday (June 6). The Congress has claimed Punjab
Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal's recent statement that the time has
come to ensure justice to the ' 84 riot victims, is a clear admission of his
failure to resolve the issue when he was a Union minister during the NDA's
previous government.

Sukhbir was a Union minister between 1999 and 2004 in the Vajpayee-led NDA
government.

Needless to mention, the CBI, the Delhi Police and other law enforcing agencies
were all under him.

What prevented him from taking the issue at the highest level? is it that he
never attempted raise the issue?" Congress spokesperson Sukhpal Singh Khaira
said.

He said newly appointed Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has also faltered on
this sensitive issue by promising to implement the Nanavati Commission report.

"The Nanavati Commission, which had submitted its report on the 1984 anti-Sikh
riots to the UPA government in 2005, had recommended cases only against four
Congress leaders," he said.

The Commission had refused to reopen 237 cases which pertained to the erring
Delhi Police officers, he said, adding it also did not recommend any relief
package for the riot victims.

The UPA government had appointed a rehabilitation committee to award Rs.2 lakh
compensation to

each of the aggrieved riot victims, Khaira said. The relief package was
approximately Rs.800 crore.

By promising to implement the Nanavati report, does Harsimrat Badal support the
closure of 237 cases of excesses and atrocities committed by the erring police
officers?" Khaira asked. He also said Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal has
failed to rehabilitate and redress the grievances of the riot victims. He added
the riot vic-

tims have formed a society, which approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court
for justice.

On Friday, Sukhbir had reiterated his resolve to ensure severe punishments to
the perpetrators 84 anti-Sikh riots. "Akali Dal soon discuss the ongoing legal
proceedings with the Union Home Minister to ensure proper investigations and
early hearings of the cases to put the perpetrators behind bars," Sukhbir had
said.

Time for justice

The UPA government had tried best to shield the culprits and awarded them high
posts in the party, he claimed. "Akali Dal is confident that the Narendra Modi
government would deliver justice as early as possible by adopting legal and
administrative measures." Meanwhile, the AAP has tried to outdo the Akalis by
demanding a Special Investigation Team to probe the riots. "The wounds of
Operation Bluestar and anti-Sikh riots are still fresh. Those guilty of
anti-Sikh riots still have not been punished. As the new government has been
formed at the Centre, we hope that the victims get justice now," senior advocate
and AAP leader H. S. Phoolka told M AIL T ODAY .

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             753 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 16, 2013 Monday
                                  Pune Edition

SC's electoral reform verdicts may help to clean up politics

BYLINE: Dhananjay Mahapatra TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 535 words


T he riots that wounded the country at its birth,continue to recur every now and
then.Numerous communal conflagrations saw as many judicial or administrative
commissions going into its genesis.Their findings and recommendations remain
unimplemented.The victims of the vicious 1984 anti-S ikh riots are still
awaiting justice - both from the government and the judiciary.Trial in the
post-Godhra communal pogrom of 2002 has not yet reached its final stages.Except
for one politician in Maya Kodnani,many are yet to feel the rigour of the rule
of law,despite the Supreme Court clearly observing,"The modern day 'Neros' were
looking elsewhere when Best Bakery and innocent children and women were burning
and were probably deliberating how the perpetrators of the crime can be saved or
protected.[Zahira Habubulla H Sheikh vs Gujarat 2004 (4) SCC 158 ]." And now
Muzaffarnagar became the theatre for the deadly dance of riots,even though UP is
ruled by a political family which champions the cause of minorities and never
wastes an opportunity to wear skull caps to assure them of protection.After
independence,the worst communal riots took place in Gujarat in 1969 when
Congress leader Hiten K Desai was chief minister.Report of the Justice Jagmohan
Reddy Commission indicted the partisan role of police saying Hindu temples near
police stations remained intact but not the mosques.Police siding with rioters
is a common thread in every inquiry report -- Justice D P Madon Commission on
the Bhiwandi,Jalgaon and Madad riots of 1970,Justice Josepth Vithyathil
Commission on the Tellicherry riots of 1971,Justice Ranganath Misra Commission
on the 1984 anti-S ikh riots in Delhi,Justice Srikrishna report on Mumbai riots
of 1992-1993 and the report of National Human Rights Commission on the 2002
Gujarat riots.For decades,the police have been consistently damned for their
partisan role during riots.During these decades,commission after commission
appointed by the Union government repeatedly recommended urgent need for reforms
in police establishment to make it a professional force rather than the alter
ego of politicians in power.No state has expressed readiness to usher in the
reforms,which the Supreme Court had directed more than six years
ago.Instead,they are now telling the court that it would be unconstitutional for
the court to direct them to implement police reforms.When police becomes the
tool in the hands of politicians,many of whom have criminal track records or are
accused of amassing huge disproportionate wealth,what does one do?

The Supreme Court in SC Advocates on Record Association case [1993 (4) SCC 411]
had said,"India needs today nothing more than a set of honest men who will have
the interest of the country before them.There is a fissiparous tendency arising
out of various elements in our life.We have communal differences,caste
differences,language differences,provincial differences and so forth.It requires
men of strong character,men of vision,men who will not sacrifice the interests
of the country at large for the sake of smaller groups and areas and who will
rise over the prejudices which are born of these differences." For full report
log on to www.timesofindia.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             754 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            April 26, 2007 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Survivors of Tulsa Race Riots Seek Help From Congress for a Wrong Never Righted

BYLINE: Lois Romano

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 919 words


Legendary black historian John Hope Franklin captivated a congressional hearing
this week when he eloquently urged members to pass legislation that would clear
the way for survivors of the nation's worst race riots to sue for reparations.

The federal courts have ruled that the statute of limitations has expired for
the victims and heirs to sue the city of Tulsa and the state of Oklahoma over
losses during 1921 race riots that left more than 200 blacks dead and 400
businesses and countless homes in a prosperous black neighborhood torched. At
the time, the legal system did not allow the black community any legal remedies.

"There was a code of silence that settled" over Tulsa, said Franklin, in
explaining why legal action was not brought sooner. Those who survived, he said,
"suffered most of their lives through the trauma."

House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) said the issue
merits congressional attention because of evidence suggesting that governmental
officials deputized and armed the mob. Harvard legal scholar Charles J.
Ogletree, who has been representing the victims, noted that "no one has ever
been held responsible criminally or civilly for destroying a 42-block area."

Ogletree introduced 104-year-old Otis Clark, a survivor of the riots, and asked
the committee to provide justice to the remaining survivors before they die.
University of Alabama law professor Alfred L. Brophy called the riots a way of
keeping the blacks "in their place." Olivia J. Hooker, six years old during the
riots, said her mother told her "your country is shooting at you."

"This was devastating to me," she said at the hearing.

Democrats and Republicans on the Judiciary subcommittee for civil rights seemed
sympathetic to the arguments. Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) arrived at the
hearing with her cab driver, who told her he was interested in the legislation.
He got an ovation.

Some members asked whether it would be enough to simply pledge that this would
never happen again.

Franklin, 92, who was born in Oklahoma and whose father was in Tulsa at the time
of the riots, argued that had the riots not occurred, many descendants might be
further "along the road of prosperity."

The prolific and revered educator told of a colossal slight at a private club
where he had been celebrating his 1995 White House Medal of Freedom, the
nation's highest civilian honor.

"A white woman came up to me and said, 'Here, you get my coat,' " he recalled.
"What was I doing there except to serve her?

" 'No more' is not good enough."

Just a Cold

Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) didn't make it
to this week's high-stakes conference meeting on the emergency funding
legislation for Iraq, saying  he was feeling under the weather. At 89 years old,
he is the longest-serving member in the Senate, and notices about his health are
closely watched. A spokesman said yesterday that Byrd was tired and recovering
from a spring cold and was back at work.  "He's feeling better every day," said
spokesman Tom Gavin.

'It's All About the Math'

It was not so long ago that gay activists were on the defensive, with 22 states
considering bans on same-sex marriage and Congress considering a constitutional
amendment declaring that marriage must be between a man and a woman.

But after working hard -- and spending millions -- in last year's elections,
activists are looking at 2007 as a victory year. Joe Solmonese says it is no
accident.

When he took over the leadership two years ago of the Human Rights Campaign --
the nation's largest gay rights group -- Solmonese saw a clear opportunity to go
on the offensive with the organization's largest-ever electoral effort. "It was
time to be tactical and not just stand on the sidewalk" protesting, he said in a
recent interview. "We are trying to change the role we play in electoral
politics. It's all about the math, and for the first time in a very long time
there are people in charge who are committed to moving legislation."

Significantly, a new federal hate-crimes bill is making its way through the
Democratic Congress that would for the first time include sexual orientation in
the federal criminal code. And this week, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act
(ENDA), which would ban job discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation --
was introduced in the House. Both bills have strong Democratic support.

For the first time in the group's 27-year history, the HRC spent or raised
millions of dollars on state and congressional elections and mobilized many of
its 700,000 members to work in the field.

New Hampshire is expected to pass a bill today legalizing same-sex unions, and
yesterday, Iowa's House approved a bill to outlaw discrimination based on sexual
orientation and gender identity.

"What it all comes down to is that we're beginning to be perceived as
politically potent," Solmonese said.

The ultimate goal, he says, is to legalize same-sex marriage, but he
acknowledges that it won't happen by simply demanding it. "There is a more
strategic way to move the country in the direction of gay marriage," he said,
"and that is to recognize that the American people need to have an initial
conversation about the circumstances of having a partner, of being in a
relationship for a long time, and having kids . . . the circumstances of our
lives."

His goals for the 2008 elections may be a tad more modest than they were in
2006: "We helped a lot of good people get elected -- and we will play a role in
holding onto those seats.'

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Associated Press; Mount Zion Baptist Church, above, was one of
hundreds of buildings burned by a white mob during the 1921 Tulsa race riots.
Historian John Hope Franklin, left, says no one has been held accountable for
the devastation.
IMAGE; By Katherine Frey -- The Washington Post
IMAGE; By Judy G. Rolfe; Human Rights Campaign President Joe Solmonese, right,
with Rep. Christopher Shays (R-Conn.), seeks to mobilize the nation's largest
gay organization to move legislation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             755 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 4, 1991, Wednesday

Leading Article: The familiar riots of summer

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; Page 22

LENGTH: 567 words


''HOTTING'' on an Oxford estate. Riots in Cardiff and Birmingham. Flying wedges
of police officers charging. It's summer at last. Urban violence has become a
lamentable but entirely familiar feature of British life. In 1981 there were
serious riots in Brixton, Southall, Toxteth and elsewhere, all apparently
related to racial tension as well as to needle between police and public. It
happened again in 1983, and in 1989, the year of the lager louts, when the Prime
Minister was warned that ''there are still very deep public disorder problems in
the inner cities''.

This is not a peculiarly British problem. Indeed, inner-city conflict in this
country seems to mirror, at a lower level of violence, the riots in hundreds of
American cities between 1965 and 1968. Similar disorders have occurred in Paris
and Berlin. Nor is it wholly new. Fighting between police and young men,
especially the unemployed and the Irish, was endemic in Liverpool, Glasgow and
east London 100 years ago. In 1911 - the last year before 1990 when the mercury
touched 98 F in Britain - troops fought strikers in London and there were riots
in Liverpool. Hundreds of research projects have accumulated evidence for the
connection between heat waves and aberrant behaviour, including suicide,
schizophrenic crises and stress. It is also a banal fact that in hot weather
people drink more and are likely to hang about the streets at night.

Reactions to the riots in US cities in the Sixties tended to be grouped into
political categories. There was the radical interpretation: people were rioting
because the revolution was coming, which was good. There was the conservative
interpretation: people were rioting because the revolution was coming, and that
was bad. And there was the liberal interpretation: people were rioting because
they wanted better housing, better jobs and better schools; it was the fault of
society and we were all to blame. No doubt if people were better off, they would
be less likely to riot. Still, closer examination of the Watts riot of 1965 and
the Detroit riot of 1967 suggests that whatever the longer-term social causes,
the proximate reason for the sudden upsurge of violence was bad blood between a
significant fraction of the population in disadvantaged neighbourhoods and the
police.

This does not mean that the disturbances in Oxford and Cardiff this year, or in
Toxteth or Brixton in earlier years, were ''the fault of the police''. What it
does mean is that the police are in the front line, and must ask themselves some
basic questions about their priorities. Residents of troubled estates or
inner-city areas, many of them elderly people of modest means, have a right to
police protection. But the best way to protect them can hardly be to wait until
trouble has broken out and then send in hundreds of police equipped like Roman
legionaries to beat up young people who are themselves raring for a scrap. It
would surely be better to work steadily in difficult neighbourhoods to nip
potential problems in the bud. Most police officers would like more bobbies on
the beat. They would appreciate more activities to absorb the energies of
frustrated young men. And they would like more appreciation for the hard grind
of good community policing, rather than panics from media and politicians about
the threat to civilisation every time some young people go over the top.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


                             756 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

Documentary sheds light on Amit Shah's link in Muzaffarnagar riots

LENGTH: 221  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Gopal Menon's documentary The Killing Fields of Muzaffarnagar, that was screened
at St Xavier's college in Ahmedabad on Tuesday, shows incidents behind riots in
Muzaffarnagar, pointing out that riots were instigated by right-wing Hindu
politicians after Gujarat minister Amit Shah was sent to UP for Lok Sabha
elections. The 50-minute documentary showed lives of riot-affected families
living in refugee camps. The Supreme Court has taken into cognizance Menon's
documentary as one of the five DVDs submitted to the apex court by petitioners
seeking justice to show the incidents of riots.

After the screening, Menon told this newspaper, "Muzaffarnagar has a history of
keeping peace. There was not a single clash reported in the wake of the
Partition or during the Babri Masjid demolition. However, a small motorbike
accident between two boys of two communities led to such a big riot? All local
politicians who called for sabhas before riots were in the Shah's shadow. The
riots were manufactured by them to settle their feet in UP before elections."

The documentary has live footage of panchayat sabhas, with politicians inciting
communities.  Menon said, "We've also spoken to a local group prepared in UP
called 'Narendra Modi Army' that was one of the most active groups that
committed atrocities on Muslims during the riots."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             757 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Band striking a blow for freedom;
Pussy Riot ; Opinion

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 269 words


I STRONGLY disagree with Rick Martin's letter in the Post on the 21st August
regarding Pussy Riot's imprisonment.

The Russian authorities should not be applauded for carrying out what was
obviously a show trial. The Draconian sentencing was a statement made by the
ruling clique of Russia that dissent against the country's "managed democracy"
would not be tolerated.

I take issue with the point Mr Martin said about the "older and religiously
devout" being traumatised by Pussy Riot's protest. You need only take a glance
at Russia's modern history to see economic collapse, enforced atheism, war,
terrorism and the chaotic collapse of a police state. Amid all of this I am sure
many elderly Russian worshippers would have seen more disturbing sights than
Pussy Riot. To dismiss Pussy Riots' protest as disrespectful religion is to miss
the point of their protest entirely. Pussy Riot chose the cathedral in question
as a venue because of alleged support that members of the hierarchy of the
Russian Orthodox Church had given to Vladimir Putin's candidacy for the
Pres-idential office. So far I haven't heard any messages from the hierarchy to
object to the authorities' over-reac-tion.

I find it ironic that Mr Martin's remedy for the alleged ills for Pussy Riot is
to force these feminists to read a book promoting patriarchy. As an atheist I
find his assertion offensive that a lack of religious leaning breeds bad
behaviour. I commend the efforts of Pussy Riot to strike a blow for freedom. It
is they who should be applauded, not the Thug-in-chief Putin and his minions in
the Russian gover nment.

Zachary Barker

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ? The band Pussy Riot in court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TPO


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             758 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                                  All Editions

Swimming

SECTION: Pg. D2

LENGTH: 2206 words


HIGH SCHOOL


At Down East Family YMCA,

Ellsworth

Foxcroft Academy girls 104, Ellsworth 51

200 medley relay: Foxcroft A (Ashley Murray, Amber Murray, Marley Clark, Erin
Boyer) 2:06.17; Foxcroft B 2:18.26, Ellsworth A 2:22.24; 200 free: Erin Boyer
(FA) 2:16.87, As. Murray (FA) 2:23.60, Winkelmann (E) 2:41.58, Dever (FA)
2:59.33, Cravens (E) 3:02.79; 200 IM: Mallory Nightingale (E) 2:45.90, Clark
(FA) 2:50.67, Grant (FA) 2:55.17; 50 free: Marley Clark (FA) 25.68, Kurzius (FA)
27.70, As. Murray (FA) 28.55, Lyons (E) 31.37, Vachon (E) 33.36; 100 butterfly:
Amber Murray (FA) 1:16.71, Kudsi (FA) 1:17.49, Tainter (E) 1:47.47; 100 free:
Marley Clark (FA) 57.60, Kurzius (FA) 1:00.72, Cyr (E) 1:12.70, Thurber (E)
1:20.48; 500 free: Erin Boyer (FA) 6:10.78, Cohen (E) 6:23.46, Vachon (E)
7:44.91; 200 free relay: Foxcroft A (Julia Kurzius, Abby Grant, Mamie Clarke,
Ana Kudsi) 2:04.47; Ellsworth A 2:07.48; 100 back: Ashley Murray (FA) 1:07.90,
Grant (FA) 1:19.66, Cohen (E) 1:20.67, Cyr (E) 1:22.92; 100 breaststroke: Ana
Kudsi (FA) 1:28.20, Nightingale (E) 1:32.54, Cravens (E) 1:34.12, Dever (FA)
1:54.35, Homer (E) 2:08.18; 400 free relay: Foxcroft A (Erin Boyer, Amber
Murray, Ashley Murray, Marley Clark) 4:18.72; Ellsworth A 4:42.76


Ellsworth boys 99, Foxcroft Academy 39

200 medley relay: Ellsworth A (Lyle Stephenson, Keith Chandler, Genya Grover,
Travis Dennison) 2:05.00; Foxcroft A 2:12.97; Ellsworth B 2:17.03; 200 free:
Keith Chandler (E) 2:02.34, Oldfield (FA) 2:07.69, Smith (E) 2:17.05, Keefe (E)
2:32.76; 200 IM: Keith Chandler (E) 2:25.55, Grover (E) 2:28.24; 50 free:
Zachery Wight (E) 23.86, Evans (FA) 28.01, Keefe (E) 30.59, Pearsall (FA) 30.69,
Soto (FA) 30.93; 100 butterfly: Travis Dennison (E) 1:01.47; 100 free: Zachery
Wight (E) 54.34, Stephenson (E) 1:04.99; 500 free: Travis Dennison (E) 5:32.05,
Smith (E) 6.20.70; 200 free relay: Ellsworth A (Zach Smith, John Keefe,
Alexander Keefe, Zachery Wight) 1:52.34; Foxcroft A 1:55.77; 100 back: Seth
Oldfield (FA) 1:05.35, Stephenson (E) 1:08.13, Arkin (E) 1:27.93, Stiffler (FA)
1:31.47; 100 breaststroke: Tucker Cambridge (E) 1:14.55, Evans (FA) 1:24.00,
Jung (FA) 1:25.98, Soto (FA) 1:28.14; 400 free relay: Ellsworth A (Keith
Chandler, Genya Grover, Travis Dennison, Zachery Wight) 3:54.01; Ellsworth B
4:25.93

At Bar Harbor

Mount Desert Island girls 103, Brewer 82

200 medley relay: MDI A (Tarryn Rourke, Ryann Rourk, Chelsey Curran, Grace
Tweedie) 2:07.46; MDI B 2:16.17, Brewer C 2:46.38; 200 free: Jessica Hodsdon (B)
2:07.89, Yau (MDI) 2:21.33, McNally (B) 2:30.26, Reisman (MDI) 2:30.80, Adelmann
(MDI) 2:33.00; 200 IM: Ryann Rourk (MDI) 2:30.11, Fleishman (B) 2:38.12, Tweedie
(MDI) 2:54.58, Weigel (B) 2:55.46; 50 free: Chelsey Curran (MDI) 26.01, T. Rourk
(MDI) 28.62, Meehan (B) 28.99, Yau (MDI) 29.32, Riley (B) 32.19; 1 meter diving:
Martina Bosse (B) 172.70, Speight (MDI) 151.45, Rothenherber 128.75, Karnofsky
85.60, Ellis (B) 65.80; 100 butterfly: Sarah Meehan (B) 1:14.59, Ranquist (MDI)
1:19.68, Chase (B) 1:20.52, Stanton (MDI) 1:28.07, Hand (B)1:41.83; 100 free:
Grace Tweedie (MDI) 1:05.21, McNally (B) 1:06.91, Blank (MDI) 1:09.60, Weigel
(B) 1:09.82, Blandford (MDI) 1:10.22; 500 free: Jessica Hodsdon (B) 5:42.36,
Lovejoy (MDI) 6:38.20, Mills (B) 7:06.74, Reisman (MDI) 7:16.19, Lane (B)
7:46.78; 200 free relay: Brewer A (Jillian McNally, Sarah Meehan, Hali
Fleishman, Jessica Hodsdon) 1:53.24; MDI 1 1:56.93; Brewer B 2:12.00; 100 back:
Chelsey Curran (MDI) 1:02.26, R. Rourk (MDI) 1:11.70, Chase (B) 1:21.62,
Patterson (B) 1:31.55, Hand (B) 1:36.32; 100 breaststroke: Britta Lovejoy (MDI)
1:20.71, T. Rourk (MDI) 1:22.88, Fleishman (B) 1:28.44, Mills (B) 1:35.32, Dunn
(B) 1:36.22; 400 free relay: Brewer A (Jillian McNally, Sarah Meehan, Hali
Fleishman, Jessica Hodsdon) 4:13.71; MDI A 4:25.47, MDI C 4:39.50

MDI boys 112, Brewer 62

200 medley relay: MDI B (Andre Stevens-Rosa, Ian Carbone, Ty Onda, Rowan Kase)
1:49.16; MDI A 1:49.18, Brewer A 2:05.78; 200 free: Brent Williams (B) 1:56.38,
Carbone (MDI) 2:05.92, Gladstone (MDI) 2:17.80, Jenkins (B) 2:38.80, Colley (B)
2:58.16; 200 IM: Cullen O'Brien (MDI) 2:15.89, Breen (MDI) 2:31.16, Cline (MDI)
2:31.53, Callahan (B) 2:33.63, Woodward (B) 3:07.45; 50 free: Ty Onda (MDI)
24.12, Woodward (B) 24.44, Timko (MDI) 25.86, Callahan (B) 26.00, Kase (MDI)
26.38; 1 meter diving: Spencer Warmuth (B) 140.75; 100 butterfly: Andre
Stevens-Rosa (MDI) 1:04.83, O'Brien (MDI) 1:05.00, Woodward (B) 1:07.03, Carbone
(MDI) 1:09.79, Callahan (B) 1:13.39; 100 free: Ty Onda (MDI) 51.99, Williams (B)
53.41, Breen (MDI) 53.62, Gladstone (MDI) 58.62, Pottle (B) 1:00.30; 500 free:
Ian Carbone (MDI) 5:02.43, Hendricks (MDI) 6:02.90, Cline (MDI) 6:17.65,
Moellentin (B) 7:19.97; 200 free relay: Brewer A (Matt Callahan, Zack Callahan,
Caleb Woodward, Brent Williams) 1:41.46; MDI B 1:45.15, MDI A 1:59.46; 100 back:
Evan Hendricks (MDI) 1:10.93, Pottle (B) 1:12.99, Jenkins (B) 1:17.32, Dickey
(MDI) 1:21.52, Taylor (B) 1:24.74; 100 breaststroke: Ian Carbone (MDI) 1:01.62,
Callahan (B) 1:22.26, Woodward (B) 1:36.05, Graves (MDI) 1:39.92; 400 free
relay: MDI B (Jason Carbone, Rowan Kase, Andre Stevens-Rosa, Ian Carbone)
3:41.55; MDI A 3:43.39, Brewer A 3:57.33

At Bangor Y

John Bapst girls 121, Old Town 62

200 medley relay: John Bapst A (Sarah VanKirk, Vanesa Urango, Tara Nitardy,
Phoebe Peckenham) 2:10.88; Old Town A 2:23.22, John Bapst B 2:26.51; 200 free:
Tara Nitardy (JB) 2:04.73, Bailey (OT) 2:28.67, Nickerson (OT) 2:32.70, Rublee
(JB) 2:54.62, Musgrave (JB) 2:55.13, Hatch (OT) 3:01.87; 200 IM: Sarah VanKirk
(JB) 2:41.08, Kenneway (OT) 2:49.80, Peckenham (JB) 2:50.61, Mills (OTV)
2:59.67, Kopec-Belliveau (OT) 3:29.95; 50 free: Paige Cote (JB) 30.20, Bond (OT)
31.21, Bousfield (JB) 31.41, Boobar (OT) 32.35, Ricker (OT) 32.68, Hardy (JB)
33.79; 1 meter diving: Deanna Kizer (JB) 129.00, Bachelder (OT) 85.75,
McLaughlin (OT) 83.85; 100 butterfly: Tara Nitardy (JB) 1:03.24, Gifford (OT)
1:20.36, Branch (JB) 1:25.07, Davenport (JB) 1:29.91, Jackson (OT) 1:38.35; 100
free: Sally Peckenham (JB) 1:03.28, Kenneway (OT) 1:05.97, Carmack (JB) 1:09.11,
Ricker (OT) 1:12.80, Webb (JB) 1:13.78, Hatch (OT) 1:23.00; 500 free: Meri
Isherwood (JB) 6:27.24, Nickerson (OT) 6:57.80, Hardy (JB) 7:26.83, Anderson
(JB) 8:12.44, Lovejoy (OT) 8:16.72; 200 free relay: John Bapst A (Mary Carmack,
Paige Cote, Phoebe Peckenham, Sally Peckenham) 1:58.69; John Bapst B 2:09.31,
Old Town A 2:11.83, Old Town B 2:21.43; 100 back: Sarah VanKirk (JB) 1:13.48,
Cote (JB) 1:15.30, Peckenham (JB) 1:16.78, Gifford (OT) 1:22.30, Jackson (OT)
1:35.62; 100 breaststroke: Vanesa Urango (JB) 1:27.68, Call (JB) 1:28.43, Bailey
(OT) 1:30.00, Gonnella (OT) 1:32.99, Carmack (JB) 1:33.80, Ricker (OT) 1:43.32;
400 free relay: John Bapst A (Sarah VanKirk, Phoebe Peckenham, Sally Peckenham,
Tara Nitardy) 4:21.67; Old Town A 4:39.95, John Bapst A 4:52.73, Old Town B
5:13.64

Old Town boys 86, John Bapst 84

200 medley relay: John Bapst A (Corey Isherwood, Andrew Desrosiers, Aaron
Kintzi, Ethan Hoksch) 1:52.63; Old Town A 1:58.83, Old Town B 2:30.93; 200 free:
Kal Hermansen (OT) 2:07.64, Grover (JB) 2:11.40, Hoksch (JB) 2:14.99, Gilman
(OT) 2:32.72, Lad (JB) 2:33.56, Oullette (OT) 2:40.19; 200 IM: Robbie Bickford
(OT) 2:11.58, Kintzi (JB) 2:19.68, Isherwood (JB) 2:20.84, Campbell (OT)
2:46.60, Chapman (OT) 2:52.16; 50 free: Andrew Desrosiers (JB) 23.48,
Gaete-Lemus (OT) 26.43, Ploch (OT) 26.89, Baillargeon (OT) 27.32, Amoroso (JB)
27.57, Asselin (JB) 28.24; 100 butterfly: Corey Isherwood (JB) 1:06.54,
Gaete-Lemus (OT) 1:07.77, Ploch (OT) 1:10.57, Grover (JB) 1:11.44, Cabaliero
(OT) 1:28.89; 100 free: Camden Amoroso (JB) 1:00.80, Gilman (OT) 1:01.12,
Chapman (OT) 1:02.40, Oullette (OT) 1:05.49, Asselin (JB) 1:06.29, Audette (JB)
1:09.94; 500 free: Kal Hermansen (OT) 6:00.76, Hoksch (JB) 6:09.22, Lachance
(OT) 7:21.23, Oullette (OT) 8:09.73, Lindell (JB) 8:26.00; 200 free relay: John
Bapst A (Ethan Hoksch, Ian Grover, Camden Amoroso, Aaorn Kintzi) 1:46.94, Old
Town A 1:47.25, John Bapst B 2:02.19, Old Town B 2:04.09; 100 back: Robbie
Bickford (OT) 1:00.96, Kintzi (JB) 1:02.92, Desrosiers (JB) 1:03.09, Caballero
(OT) 1:27.05, Bowen (OT) 1:27.50; 100 breaststroke: Lucas Baillargeon (OT)
1:17.76, Lad (JB) 1:21.10, Campbell (OT) 1:21.29, Pearson (JB) 1:27.01,
Vigneault (JB) 1:30.39; 400 free relay: John Bapst  A (Ian Grover, Camden
Amoroso, Corey Isherwood, Andrew Desrosiers) 3:53.77; Old Town A 3:55.02, John
Bapst 4:44.44, Old Town B 5:03.01

At Husson University, Bangor

Bangor boys 128.5, Orono 47.5

200 Medley Relay: 1, Orono  'A' (Dwyer, Cameron FR, Foley, Carson FR, Collett,
Chase FR, Seavey, Mac FR), 1:53.72. 2, Bangor  'B' 1:55.76. 3, Bangor  'C'
1:57.96; 200 Free: 1, Kasprzak, Ian, Bangor, 2:06.33. 2, Veilleux, Zach, Bangor,
2:08.85. 3, McDonald, Dan, Bangor, 2:12.72. 4, Collett, Chase, Red Riots,
2:19.05. 5, Vassar, Stuart, Red Riots, 2:59.69; 200 IM: 1, Wicks, Taylor,
Bangor, 2:15.10. 2, Moreside, James, Bangor, 2:20.85. 3, Herbold, Tristan,
Bangor, 2:28.00; 50 Free: 1, Quinn, Joey, Bangor, 23.31. 2, Foley, Carson, Red
Riots, 25.60. 2, McOscar, Thomas, Bangor, 25.60. 4, Rapaport, Ben, Bangor,
26.84. 5, Borland, Gabe, Red Riots, 30.89. 6, Eden, Blake, Red Riots, 36.73;
Diving: 1, Smith, Tim, Bangor, 220.70. 2, Kelly, Kirby, Red Riots, 183.70. 3,
Mallory-MacDonald, Kyle, Bangor, 142.50. 4, Eden, Blake, Red Riots, 103.40; 100
Fly: 1, Dwyer, Cameron, Red Riots, 58.37. 2, Barnett, Sam, Bangor, 1:04.41. 3,
Collett, Chase, Red Riots, 1:05.03. 4, Veilleux, Zach, Bangor, 1:05.95. 5,
Cameron, Ihan, Bangor, 1:06.30. 6, Seavey, Mac, Red Riots, 1:14.61; 100 Free: 1,
Herbold, Tristan, Bangor, 57.05. 2, McOscar, Thomas, Bangor, 57.27. 3, McDonald,
Dan, Bangor, 57.74. 4, Garcke, Karl, Red Riots, 1:11.64. 5, Borland, Gabe, Red
Riots, 1:12.06. 6, Vassar, Stuart, Red Riots, 1:18.68; 500 Free: 1, Quinn, Joey,
Bangor, 5:17.62. 2, Rogers, Jeff, Bangor, 6:17.41; 200 Free Relay: 1, Bangor
'B' (Herbold, Tristan JR, Farrell, Doug SR, Barnett, Sam SO, Cameron, Ihan JR),
1:42.96. 2, Bangor  'A' 1:43.95. 3, Orono 'A' 1:44.70. 4, Bangor  'C' x1:44.99.
5, Orono  'B' 2:15.29; 100 Back: 1, Wicks, Taylor, Bangor, 57.29. 2, Dwyer,
Cameron, Red Riots, 58.99. 3, Livingstone, Seth, Bangor, 1:12.66. 4, Jameson,
Mitch, Bangor, 1:13.24. 5, Garcke, Karl, Red Riots, 1:29.89; 100 Breaststroke:
1, Barnett, Sam, Bangor, 1:08.23. 2, Foley, Carson, Red Riots, 1:08.94. 3,
Walton, Isaac, Bangor, 1:11.36. 4, Moreside, James, Bangor, 1:12.00. 5, Seavey,
Mac, Red Riots, 1:21.62; 400 Free Relay: 1, Bangor  'B' (Rapaport, Ben JR,
Rogers, Jeff FR, Livingstone, Seth JR, Wicks, Taylor JR), 3:58.44. 2, Bangor
'A' 3:59.39. 3, Bangor  'C' x4:10.37. 4, Orono  'A' 5:20.63

Bangor girls 129, Orono 54

200 Medley Relay: 1, Bangor  'A' (Theriault, Brianna SR, Reading, Mariah FR,
Woodcock, Eliza SR, Redman, Sadie SO), 2:05.89. 2, Orono  'A' 2:09.77. 3, Bangor
'B' 2:19.06. 4, Bangor  'C' x2:27.68. 5, Orono  'B' 2:37.28; 200 Free: 1,
Woodcock, Eliza, Bangor, 2:21.10. 2, Pasquine, Laura, Bangor, 2:24.63. 3,
Devine, Hilary, Red Riots, 2:28.32. 4, Clark, Abbie, Bangor, 2:38.42; 200 IM: 1,
Theriault, Brianna, Bangor, 2:29.07. 2, Wallace-Ewing, Veronica, Red Riots,
2:48.17. 3, Wallace-Ewing, Ruby, Red Riots, 2:49.89. 4, Farrell, Elizabeth,
Bangor, 2:52.51. 5, Dias, Tynesha, Bangor, 2:53.19. 6, Dimoulas, Ari, Red Riots,
3:22.02; 50 Free: 1, Reading, Mariah, Bangor, 25.56. 2, Pray, Casey, Bangor,
28.52. 3, Dickson, Jenny, Bangor, 29.60. 4, Tozier, Carolyne, Red Riots, 29.81.
5, Harriman, Kayla, Red Riots, 39.46. 6, Cartwright, Jessie, Red Riots, 44.00;
Diving: 1, Rowe, Meghan, Bangor, 207.40. 2, Greene, Erin, Bangor, 143.90. 3,
Smith, Jennifer, Bangor, 138.15. 4, Collett, Blaise, Red Riots, 108.40; 100 Fly:
1, Dwyer, Lauren, Red Riots, 1:03.15. 2, Wicks, Mari, Bangor, 1:15.43. 3, Dias,
Tynesha, Bangor, 1:15.70. 4, Pasquine, Laura, Bangor, 1:22.54. 5, Collett,
Blaise, Red Riots, 1:25.92. 6, Dimoulas, Ari, Red Riots, 1:32.83; 100 Free: 1,
Pray, Casey, Bangor, 1:04.54. 2, Redman, Sadie, Bangor, 1:06.02. 3, Devine,
Hilary, Red Riots, 1:07.87. 4, Osgood, Kim, Bangor, 1:09.32. 5, Arabadjis,
Sophie, Red Riots, 1:18.49. 6, Oskar Dottir, Helga, Red Riots, 1:26.94; 500
Free: 1, Woodcock, Eliza, Bangor, 6:15.64. 2, Tozier, Carolyne, Red Riots,
6:19.20. 3, Ye, Rebecca, Bangor, 6:44.83. 4, Livingstone, Sarah, Bangor,
7:21.82; 200 Free Relay: 1, Bangor  'A' (Pray, Casey JR, Dickson, Jenny SO,
Lindsay, Emily SR, Pasquine, Laura SO), 2:00.75. 2, Orono  'A' 2:00.96. 3,
Bangor  'B' 2:02.89. 4, Bangor  'C' x2:13.38. 5, Orono  'B' 2:27.69; 100 Back:
1, Dwyer, Lauren, Red Riots, 1:03.87. 2, Reading, Mariah, Bangor, 1:04.20. 3,
Wicks, Mari, Bangor, 1:17.11. 4, Farrell, Elizabeth, Bangor, 1:26.01. 5, Oskar
Dottir, Helga, Red Riots, 1:43.26; 100 Breaststroke: 1, Theriault, Brianna,
Bangor, 1:18.74. 2, Wallace-Ewing, Veronica, Red Riots, 1:18.75. 3,
Wallace-Ewing, Ruby, Red Riots, 1:29.39. 4, Nobles, Lydia, Bangor, 1:37.16. 5,
Smith, Carolyn, Bangor, 1:40.21. 6, Arabadjis, Sophie, Red Riots, 1:41.27; 400
Free Relay: 1, Bangor  'B' (Redman, Sadie SO, Dickson, Jenny SO, Theriault,
Brianna SR, Reading, Mariah FR), 4:15.59. 2, Bangor  'C' 4:26.07. 3, Bangor  'A'
x4:43.48. 4, Orono  'A' 5:01.67. 5, Orono  'B' 6:13.49

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


                             759 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                               Bangalore Edition

2013 MUZAFFARNAGAR RIOTS UP Temperature Up After Sahai Submits Report

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 345 words


Political temperature in the state shot up after reports that t h e Ju s t i c e
Vi s h n u S a h a i Commission that probed the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has
named politicians of the ruling Samajwadi Party and BJP for instigating the
riots.

Contents of the report, submitted to governor Ram Naik, are not officially
known. The governor will forward the report to the chief minister for taking
action. But sources confirmed that the report blamed politicians belonging to
the SP and BJP . It also mentioned the role of some BJP leaders for vitiating
the atmosphere in western UP after the riots started in September 2013 and
pinpointed to dereliction of duty of bureaucrats and police officers.

The 775 page report into the riots that killed more than 62 people and rendered
more than 40,000 people homeless was prepeared after recording statements of 377
common witnesses and 100 officials. The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission which
was appointed by the state government in the aftermath of the riots also
questioned then DGP Devraj Nagar and SP of all five affected districts.

Justice Sahai refused to divulege details on his report. "There were some
politicians. The role of officials has been examined in detail in the report. We
have also suggested steps to prevent such a riot in the future," he said.

While the Congress demanded that the report be made public and be placed in the
UP assembly , there was no official word on the report.Congress spokesperson
Virendra Madan said that both the SP and BJP were responsible for the riots."The
BJP instigated riots with an eye on the Lok Sabah polls which were due less than
a year after the carnage happened. The ruling Samajwadi Party did nothing to
stop it. Both are to be blamed and we will take the report to the people once
its out," Madan said.

BJP MP Sangeet Som, who was seen as one of the important figures involved in the
riots rejected the report. "We were not made part of the report. It seems one
sided and we reject it," Sangeet Som, who is alleged to have circulated some
video clips through social media said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             760 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                Kolkata Edition

2013 MUZAFFARNAGAR RIOTS UP Temperature Up After Sahai Submits Report

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 345 words


Political temperature in the state shot up after reports that t h e Ju s t i c e
Vi s h n u S a h a i Commission that probed the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has
named politicians of the ruling Samajwadi Party and BJP for instigating the
riots.

Contents of the report, submitted to governor Ram Naik, are not officially
known. The governor will forward the report to the chief minister for taking
action. But sources confirmed that the report blamed politicians belonging to
the SP and BJP . It also mentioned the role of some BJP leaders for vitiating
the atmosphere in western UP after the riots started in September 2013 and
pinpointed to dereliction of duty of bureaucrats and police officers.

The 775 page report into the riots that killed more than 62 people and rendered
more than 40,000 people homeless was prepeared after recording statements of 377
common witnesses and 100 officials. The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission which
was appointed by the state government in the aftermath of the riots also
questioned then DGP Devraj Nagar and SP of all five affected districts.

Justice Sahai refused to divulege details on his report. "There were some
politicians. The role of officials has been examined in detail in the report. We
have also suggested steps to prevent such a riot in the future," he said.

While the Congress demanded that the report be made public and be placed in the
UP assembly , there was no official word on the report.Congress spokesperson
Virendra Madan said that both the SP and BJP were responsible for the riots."The
BJP instigated riots with an eye on the Lok Sabah polls which were due less than
a year after the carnage happened. The ruling Samajwadi Party did nothing to
stop it. Both are to be blamed and we will take the report to the people once
its out," Madan said.

BJP MP Sangeet Som, who was seen as one of the important figures involved in the
riots rejected the report. "We were not made part of the report. It seems one
sided and we reject it," Sangeet Som, who is alleged to have circulated some
video clips through social media said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             761 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                 Delhi Edition

2013 MUZAFFARNAGAR RIOTS UP Temperature Up After Sahai Submits Report

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 345 words


Political temperature in the state shot up after reports that t h e Ju s t i c e
Vi s h n u S a h a i Commission that probed the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has
named politicians of the ruling Samajwadi Party and BJP for instigating the
riots.

Contents of the report, submitted to governor Ram Naik, are not officially
known. The governor will forward the report to the chief minister for taking
action. But sources confirmed that the report blamed politicians belonging to
the SP and BJP . It also mentioned the role of some BJP leaders for vitiating
the atmosphere in western UP after the riots started in September 2013 and
pinpointed to dereliction of duty of bureaucrats and police officers.

The 775 page report into the riots that killed more than 62 people and rendered
more than 40,000 people homeless was prepeared after recording statements of 377
common witnesses and 100 officials. The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission which
was appointed by the state government in the aftermath of the riots also
questioned then DGP Devraj Nagar and SP of all five affected districts.

Justice Sahai refused to divulege details on his report. "There were some
politicians. The role of officials has been examined in detail in the report. We
have also suggested steps to prevent such a riot in the future," he said.

While the Congress demanded that the report be made public and be placed in the
UP assembly , there was no official word on the report.Congress spokesperson
Virendra Madan said that both the SP and BJP were responsible for the riots."The
BJP instigated riots with an eye on the Lok Sabah polls which were due less than
a year after the carnage happened. The ruling Samajwadi Party did nothing to
stop it. Both are to be blamed and we will take the report to the people once
its out," Madan said.

BJP MP Sangeet Som, who was seen as one of the important figures involved in the
riots rejected the report. "We were not made part of the report. It seems one
sided and we reject it," Sangeet Som, who is alleged to have circulated some
video clips through social media said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             762 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        Economic Times (E-Paper Edition)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                 Mumbai Edition

2013 MUZAFFARNAGAR RIOTS UP Temperature Up After Sahai Submits Report

SECTION: PURE POLITICS

LENGTH: 345 words


Political temperature in the state shot up after reports that t h e Ju s t i c e
Vi s h n u S a h a i Commission that probed the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013 has
named politicians of the ruling Samajwadi Party and BJP for instigating the
riots.

Contents of the report, submitted to governor Ram Naik, are not officially
known. The governor will forward the report to the chief minister for taking
action. But sources confirmed that the report blamed politicians belonging to
the SP and BJP . It also mentioned the role of some BJP leaders for vitiating
the atmosphere in western UP after the riots started in September 2013 and
pinpointed to dereliction of duty of bureaucrats and police officers.

The 775 page report into the riots that killed more than 62 people and rendered
more than 40,000 people homeless was prepeared after recording statements of 377
common witnesses and 100 officials. The Justice Vishnu Sahai Commission which
was appointed by the state government in the aftermath of the riots also
questioned then DGP Devraj Nagar and SP of all five affected districts.

Justice Sahai refused to divulege details on his report. "There were some
politicians. The role of officials has been examined in detail in the report. We
have also suggested steps to prevent such a riot in the future," he said.

While the Congress demanded that the report be made public and be placed in the
UP assembly , there was no official word on the report.Congress spokesperson
Virendra Madan said that both the SP and BJP were responsible for the riots."The
BJP instigated riots with an eye on the Lok Sabah polls which were due less than
a year after the carnage happened. The ruling Samajwadi Party did nothing to
stop it. Both are to be blamed and we will take the report to the people once
its out," Madan said.

BJP MP Sangeet Som, who was seen as one of the important figures involved in the
riots rejected the report. "We were not made part of the report. It seems one
sided and we reject it," Sangeet Som, who is alleged to have circulated some
video clips through social media said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             763 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

Human rights group complains of brutality during Shuafat, Beit Hanina riots.
ACRI: Commissioner should understand there's a real problem with riot-control
officers · Police: There were no innocent people who took part

BYLINE: DANIEL K. EISENBUD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 691 words


The Association for Civil Rights in Israel published an open letter to the
nation's police chief Wednesday to denounce what it claims was excessive force
undertaken by officers during the east Jerusalem rioting that took place over
the past two weeks.

The riots engulfed large swaths of the Shuafat and Beit Hanina neighborhoods
following the alleged revenge killing of 16-year-old Shuafat resident Muhammad
Abu Khdeir, whose badly burned corpse was found in the Jerusalem Forest on July
2.

The three Jewish suspects arrested in his slaying have since confessed to
kidnapping, torturing and murdering him to avenge the killings of the three
abducted yeshiva students, Gil-Ad Shaer, Eyal Yifrah and Naftali Fraenkel.

According to Ronit Sela, director of ACRI's East Jerusalem Project, excessive
and dangerous force was used against numerous bystanders not directly involved
in the rioting.

"Since the riots began in east Jerusalem, our workers have gathered information
about police violence and whether they used riot control methods according to
protocol, or excessively," she said, adding that sponge-covered bullets were
used in addition to tear gas and stun grenades.

The sponge bullets, she said, resulted in at least three serious injuries,
including two men who were shot in the eye, and one woman who was struck in the
jaw. Sela said all three wounded were not active participants in the rioting and
that one of the men lost and eye, while the woman, a photo journalist, has since
undergone extensive surgery to repair her jaw.

"Unfortunately, the man who lost his eye was already blind in his other eye, and
now he can't work and he has two children," she said.

While conceding that the three were "in a very heated atmosphere," Sela
contended they were still "not in the eye of the storm."

"The police chief should understand that there is a real problem with riot
-control officers and Border Police, and some of the examples we cite are
criminal instances," she said. "Such riot-control enforcement might be in
violation of protocol and harmful to people and their property."

Still, Sela acknowledged that riot-control measures are a "useful tool that can
be used appropriately."

"The question is how they're put to use," she said. "Police regulations include
limitations on [use of force], so on the one hand riots can be controlled, and
on the other hand innocent bystanders don't get harmed."

Moreover, Sela said dangerous weapons such as sponge bullets should be aimed
only at the lower extremities and never at the upper torso and head.

She acknowledged the police perspective of being besieged by hundreds of highly
dangerous assailants during such riots, but added that restraint still must be
upheld.

"We clearly say we're aware these are very difficult situations for police to
deal with, but I would argue that the limitations against excessive use of force
are even more important during such volatile situations than when things are
relatively peaceful," she said.

Sela added that, in the letter, ACRI also denounced the videotaped beating of
Abu Khdeir's cousin, Tariq Abu Khdeir, 15, which was subsequently televised,
resulting in international condemnation against the arresting officers.

"It's clear from the video that he was not a threat at the point when he was
arrested, lying face-first on the ground, and yet they beat him," she said.
"Because it's on video it's easier for police to open an investigation and track
down those involved. We're concerned that similar instances have happened but
have not been videotaped."

The two officers captured in the video have since been suspended.

Asked to respond to ACRI's allegations, police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld noted
that hundreds of Arabs aggressively attacked officers with deadly weapons,
resulting in 150 arrests and 15 injured officers.

"During the riots by hundreds of Israeli Arabs, Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs
and stones were thrown at police," he said. "Officers worked carefully and
cautiously by only using nonlethal weapons, such as stun grenades and sponge
bullets, in order to control the riot."

Rosenfeld added, "There were no innocent people who took part in the riots."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: POLICE RUN after Arab stone-throwers during clashes in the
eastern Jerusalem neighborhood of Wadi Joz earlier this month. (Credit: Baz
Ratner/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             764 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

Human rights group complains of brutality during Shuafat, Beit Hanina riots.
ACRI: Commissioner should understand there's a real problem with riot-control
officers · Police: There were no innocent people who took part

BYLINE: DANIEL K. EISENBUD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 691 words


The Association for Civil Rights in Israel published an open letter to the
nation's police chief Wednesday to denounce what it claims was excessive force
undertaken by officers during the east Jerusalem rioting that took place over
the past two weeks.

The riots engulfed large swaths of the Shuafat and Beit Hanina neighborhoods
following the alleged revenge killing of 16-year-old Shuafat resident Muhammad
Abu Khdeir, whose badly burned corpse was found in the Jerusalem Forest on July
2.

The three Jewish suspects arrested in his slaying have since confessed to
kidnapping, torturing and murdering him to avenge the killings of the three
abducted yeshiva students, Gil-Ad Shaer, Eyal Yifrah and Naftali Fraenkel.

According to Ronit Sela, director of ACRI's East Jerusalem Project, excessive
and dangerous force was used against numerous bystanders not directly involved
in the rioting.

"Since the riots began in east Jerusalem, our workers have gathered information
about police violence and whether they used riot control methods according to
protocol, or excessively," she said, adding that sponge-covered bullets were
used in addition to tear gas and stun grenades.

The sponge bullets, she said, resulted in at least three serious injuries,
including two men who were shot in the eye, and one woman who was struck in the
jaw. Sela said all three wounded were not active participants in the rioting and
that one of the men lost and eye, while the woman, a photo journalist, has since
undergone extensive surgery to repair her jaw.

"Unfortunately, the man who lost his eye was already blind in his other eye, and
now he can't work and he has two children," she said.

While conceding that the three were "in a very heated atmosphere," Sela
contended they were still "not in the eye of the storm."

"The police chief should understand that there is a real problem with riot
-control officers and Border Police, and some of the examples we cite are
criminal instances," she said. "Such riot-control enforcement might be in
violation of protocol and harmful to people and their property."

Still, Sela acknowledged that riot-control measures are a "useful tool that can
be used appropriately."

"The question is how they're put to use," she said. "Police regulations include
limitations on [use of force], so on the one hand riots can be controlled, and
on the other hand innocent bystanders don't get harmed."

Moreover, Sela said dangerous weapons such as sponge bullets should be aimed
only at the lower extremities and never at the upper torso and head.

She acknowledged the police perspective of being besieged by hundreds of highly
dangerous assailants during such riots, but added that restraint still must be
upheld.

"We clearly say we're aware these are very difficult situations for police to
deal with, but I would argue that the limitations against excessive use of force
are even more important during such volatile situations than when things are
relatively peaceful," she said.

Sela added that, in the letter, ACRI also denounced the videotaped beating of
Abu Khdeir's cousin, Tariq Abu Khdeir, 15, which was subsequently televised,
resulting in international condemnation against the arresting officers.

"It's clear from the video that he was not a threat at the point when he was
arrested, lying face-first on the ground, and yet they beat him," she said.
"Because it's on video it's easier for police to open an investigation and track
down those involved. We're concerned that similar instances have happened but
have not been videotaped."

The two officers captured in the video have since been suspended.

Asked to respond to ACRI's allegations, police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld noted
that hundreds of Arabs aggressively attacked officers with deadly weapons,
resulting in 150 arrests and 15 injured officers.

"During the riots by hundreds of Israeli Arabs, Molotov cocktails, pipe bombs
and stones were thrown at police," he said. "Officers worked carefully and
cautiously by only using nonlethal weapons, such as stun grenades and sponge
bullets, in order to control the riot."

Rosenfeld added, "There were no innocent people who took part in the riots."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: POLICE RUN after Arab stone-throwers during clashes in the
eastern Jerusalem neighborhood of Wadi Joz earlier this month. (Credit: Baz
Ratner/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             765 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

Congress, BJP slam SP over Azam Khan's 'hand' in Muzaffarnagar riots

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 591 words


NEW DELHI: Rivals Congress and BJP closed ranks on Wednesday to corner the
Samajwadi Party-led government in Uttar Pradesh over the Muzaffarnagar riots
that have claimed more than 40 lives.

Congress said the UP government seems beset with differences over the riots,
seizing on the TV sting alleging culpability of a senior minister, Azam Khan, to
slam the Akhilesh regime as having failed in its duty.

As conspiracy theories and sting claims continued unabated amid arrest warrants
against political leaders, AICC spokesman Meem Afzal said, "The Akhilesh
government has not discharged its duty. These are the first riots in western UP
since 1992. The state has failed ... We have demanded the chief minister's
resignation and we are sticking to our demand."

Dismissing the arrest warrants issued against various political leaders on
Wednesday, Afzal said, "The government has failed. These arrests should have
been done earlier."

The continuing attack on SP marks a shift in Congress that initially refused to
be harsh on the state government and instead chose to focus on peace and
rehabilitation in UP. The change in stance appears influenced by the anger among
Muslims who feel the state did not discharge its duty to check the riots.

While Congress sees little advantage in siding with the party that is losing
trust of Muslims, it also does not want to be seen as going soft on religious
riots that have been its battle cry against Narendra Modi in Gujarat.

The riots have unhinged the Congress-SP bonhomie that has kept the Centre from
confronting the UP outfit, a consideration for its help in Parliament that has
later developed into a concern for post-2014 alliance.

Afzal demanded that the state investigate the claims made in the sting operation
accusing Khan of meddling in arrests of rioters.

While he said the priority should be the rehabilitation of 20,000 displaced
victims, the Congress spokesman added that UP's response to the riots was marked
by "unprecedented indifference".

BJP, too, joined the chorus with the Congress, holding the SP directly
responsible for the communal flare-up. Referring to the TV report that was based
on a sting operation on the riots, the saffron party alleged that it has been
proved beyond doubt that Khan is responsible for the flare-up of the incident
and demanded stern action against those found guilty.

"The expose by a news channel on Tuesday about the riots in Muzaffarnagar is
serious, sensitive and a matter of concern for democracy. It proves beyond doubt
who is behind the riots. The SP government was completely involved in the events
and had a politically motivated, lopsided view of the whole issue," BJP
spokesperson Sudhangshu Trivedi said.

A news channel had aired a sting operation which showed some police personnel
naming Khan as the one who intervened and asked the cops to release seven men
involved in the initial violence in Muzaffarnagar. This allegedly led to further
violence as people reacted to their release.

"BJP demands that the UPA government takes effective and stern action against
the SP government. Effective legal action should also be taken against those
involved irrespective of their stature in government," Trivedi said.

The main opposition alleged that since no action has been taken by the Centre
till now it shows Congress and SP are "hand in glove".

The party posed pointed questions to Congress, SP and social groups that have
often targeted Narendra Modi, who is now the party's PM candidate for 2014, on
the issue of secularism.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             766 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Community Care

                               November 24, 2011

How serious are councils about evicting riot tenants?

BYLINE: Samantha Thorp

SECTION: CHILDREN

LENGTH: 813 words



HIGHLIGHT: Social housing providers talked tough after the summer street
disturbances. Samantha Thorp asks whether they were empty threats


In a blog written shortly after this summer's riots, Manchester Council's
leader, Richard Leese, was uncompromising about tenants found guilty of riot
-related behaviour. "We have the power to evict people involved in anti-social
behaviour and we are ready, willing and able to use that power. Anyone involved
in these disturbances or anyone who has allowed their children to be involved
needs to understand that we don't want you in our community."

Leese was not alone in his opinions and many of the councils affected by the
riots were quick to publicly announce their intention to pursue eviction for
tenants convicted of riot-related offences. It raised fears among social care
and housing professionals that the rehabilitation of problem families could be
set back years if they were kicked out of their homes.

However, several months after the riots, no tenants have been evicted as a
result of their involvement in the disturbances. Does this mean the tough
pronouncements on evictions were empty threats designed for publicity or are
councils simply delaying the punishment?

Only two councils, Wandsworth and Greenwich, have started eviction proceedings
by issuing a possession notice but neither case has yet proceeded to the county
court.

All the other councils involved told Community Care they were still waiting for
the outcome of legal proceedings against tenants charged with riot-related
offences. However, they made it clear that, as landlords, they would still
consider pursuing eviction if there was a conviction but based on the
circumstances of each individual case. None of the councils would speak publicly
about the criteria they would use when reviewing these cases, although Southwark
said it would not evict anybody vulnerable, including children.

Wandsworth was the first council to serve an eviction notice to one of its
tenants, Maite de la Calva, in the aftermath of the riots. Her son is due to
appear in court in December. A spokesperson maintained the council's stance on
evictions had not changed: "Taxpayer-subsidised accommodation is a privilege not
a right - and those people who destroy local businesses [and] trash their
neighbourhoods need to understand that the consequences of such unacceptable
behaviour is that they run the risk of losing that privilege."

It is shaping up to be a test case and it is clear they will have a fight on
their hands. Emma Norton, a solicitor at human rights campaign group Liberty
which is representing de la Calva, says that if Wandsworth pursued eviction it
would be failing its duties under the Human Rights Act. "It would be
disproportionate and in violation of article 8 for this innocent mother and
innocent daughter to be made homeless for the conduct of her son," she said.

Nushra Mansuri, professional officer at the British Association of Social
Workers, agrees: "Councils want to be seen as tough on these people. But I think
there are big welfare issues here and it could open up even more social
problems."

However, Grainia Long, interim chief executive at the Chartered Institute of
Housing, says the fact that no evictions have taken place is evidence the social
housing sector has taken a "pragmatic view" of tenants' involvement in the riots
and evictions would only ever be a last resort. "What we mustn't forget is that
forcibly removing people from their home is incredibly traumatic for the whole
household. It can impact them for many years to follow."

Whether landlords decide to pursue evictions, one of the repercussions of the
riots has been a proposed change in the law, published by the government
immediately after the riots in August. This would alter the grounds on which a
social landlord could seek possession by removing the current requirement that
criminal or antisocial behaviour must take place in the "locality" of the
tenant's home.

"Wreak havoc in somebody else's community and you could lose your home," warned
housing minister Grant Schapps at the time.

Liz Davies, a barrister specialising in social housing, believes such proposals
are about punishment rather than ensuring people who live near tenants have
peaceful lives. "It's hard to see the proposals as anything other than
punishment and punishment should be dealt with by the criminal justice system,"
she says.

But Long is confident that there is little appetite in the sector for such
sanctions: "I suspect that housing providers wouldn't see the need to use that
and will continue to do what they have always done by managing the behaviour
among their tenants within the locality."

What do you think? Join the debate on CareSpace

Keep up to date with the latest developments in social care Sign up to our daily
and weekly emails

Related articles

Lack of parenting support funds fuels riots debate

The lack of answers about the riots tells its own story

Inform subscribers

Guide to housing benefit (HB)by pursuing eviction

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2011 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             767 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             August 24, 2014 Sunday
                               Ahmedabad Edition

Riot-hit Saharanpur prays for calm as bypoll looms

BYLINE: Avijit.Ghosh@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 666 words


The riots happened nearly four weeks ago.Like a sharp burst of acid rain, it
corroded Saharanpur claiming three lives and snatching hundreds of livelihoods.
Now, as the western UP town hobbles back to normal, a fresh battle between
memory and forgetting gets underway . The riot-scarred town is gearing up for an
assembly bypoll on September 13 and voters are wary that election speeches could
inflame passions, adversely affecting the brittle social fabric slowly on the
mend.

"Politicians polarize people. Elections give them an opportunity to do it again.
After the riots, there's unease and fear, although the Rapid Action Force
presence creates a sense of security", says Manu Gupta, dean of students, Jain
Degree College. School principal Anita Kanwar says people are awaiting the polls
with a prayer on their lips."We hope it passes off peacefully," she says.

Filing of nomination began on Wednesday . Samajwadi Party has announced its
candidate. BSP isn't contesting. Congress and BJP are expected to name their
nominees on Saturday . The last day for filing nomination is August 27.

The Saharanpur Nagar assembly seat fell vacant after MLA Raghav Lakhanpal of BJP
contested the 2014 LS polls and overcame Congress' Imran Masood by over 65,000
votes. Lakhanpal won the assembly seat in 2012 despite Mulayam Singh Yadav's SP
sweeping the state.

Riots are rare in Saharanpur. The last was in 1992 after the Babri Masjid
demolition.

Although the Muzaffarnagar riots last September scorched most of western UP ,
mildmannered Saharanpur kept its calm.

But the July 26 riots over a land dispute between Sikhs and Muslims drove
communities apart. Accused No 1 in the riot FIR is Moharram Ali aka Pappu, a
former BSP councilor. Shortly after the riots, Hindi newspapers frontpaged a
photo showing him with top SP leaders, including CM Akhilesh Yadav . The
photograph had been posted on the Facebook home page of Sanjay Garg, SP
candidate for the forthcoming poll. Garg contested the 2012 assembly election on
a BSP ticket.

Underlining his poll agenda, the SP candidate talks of shanti (peace), b h a i
ch a ra ( b ro t h e r h o o d )

and vikas (development). He blames BJP for magnifying small incidents and making
political capital out of riots."At a ceremony following businessman Harish
Kochar's death in the riot, a BJP leader said: Tum Pakistan se ujad kar aaye
thhe. Yahan se ujad kar kahan jaoge. Isn't this inciting people," asks Garg.

Moharram Ali is known to have campaigned for Congress during the 2014 LS
polls.Masood, an important Congress leader here, whose controversial "boti boti"
remark

on Narendra Modi, earned him instant headlines, said: "I can neither confirm nor
deny if he was in Congress. I can say for sure that nobody has the right to
instigate riots."

Masood too promises to keep his campaign sober."BJP will do what it does
best.But we'll keep the peace," he says. At least on one occasion, Masood walked
the talk.Transporter Moksh Bir Singh recalls last year Masood played peacemaker
when a Muslim woman died under a Kanwariya trolley .

At the moment, there's a rush to become BJP's Saharanpur Nagar candidate. Party
district president Manveer Singh says he's received 64 applications for the job.
The party campaign, he insists, will focus on the absence of law and order and
electric

ity shortage. "As for the riots, video footage is available for all to see. The
government doesn't want to act against the real rioters," he says.

Despite all parties talking harmony, a mismatch between words and deeds cannot
be ruled out, reason why Saharanpur's new DM Inderbir Singh Yadav is taking no
chances. "We had a video conference with the Election Commission. Apart from
PAC, six RAF companies are posted. I'm going to ask for more forces," he says.

In Saharanpur, old-timers love to talk about Baba Lal Das and Shah Haroon
Chisti, medieval saints from different religions whose friendship is worth an
Amar Chitra Katha special. The town needs all that and much more to heal and
restore.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             768 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                             October 4, 2010 Monday

Muslims remain calm after Ayodhya court decision

BYLINE: Shaikh Azizur Rahman in Lucknow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 756 words


Contrary to initial expectations, India's Muslims did not react violently to a
landmark court ruling dividing a contested religious site between Hindus and
Muslims, because they feared they would come off worst in any sectarian riots,
analysts say.

Muslims were disappointed that the Allahabad High Court on Thursday allotted
two-thirds of the disputed site of a 16th century mosque in the north Indian
Hindu holy town of Ayodhya to Hindu litigants, but fears of a sectarian backlash
soon faded.

"Muslims felt cheated and disappointed by the court," said Aziz Mubarki,
secretary of South Asia Ulema [Muslim clergy] Council.

"Hindus, including their leaders, celebrated the verdict as their victory. Yet
the Muslims have controlled their anger and remained calm."

In 1992 the demolition of the Babri mosque in Ayodhya by Hindu mobs triggered
nationwide riots between Hindus and Muslims that killed more than 2,000 people,
mostly Muslims. Hindu-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002 - in which about 2,000
people, again mostly Muslims, are believed to have died - could also be traced
to the Ayodhya mosque row.

There were fears that anger within either community over Thursday's ruling could
have led to new bloodshed. But analysts and activists said the minority Muslims
had learned from past experience that they were more vulnerable and would suffer
badly in the event of any riots.

Mubarki pointed out that in many places Hindus celebrated the decision, but
Muslims did not react to  "those provocations".

"In Hazaribagh, Hindus inscribed 'Jai Shriram' ['Hail, Lord Ram'] on some copies
of the Koran and burnt some of their pages," Mubarki claimed. "Yet, Muslims have
remained quiet because they know that only they, not the Hindus, would have to
bear the brunt, in case riots broke out."

Shabbir Husain, a mosque leader in the northern Indian city of Aligarh, said
police and authorities  "routinely gang up" with Hindus in riots.

"Muslims showed their maturity by controlling their anger against the verdict
and other Hindu provocations," Husain said.

Analysts backed these Muslim leaders' views.

Lucknow-based social activist S R Darapuri, a former inspector general of Uttar
Pradesh police, said in all Hindu-Muslim riots that he had witnessed, the Hindu
majority police forces sided with Hindu rioters.

"Even judicial inquiry commissions revealed the pro-Hindu role of Indian police
in the cases of many riots in the past," said Darapuri."The Allahabad court
judiciary ignored historical evidence, clearly showed its bias in favour of
majority Hindus, and Muslims have justified reasons to be angry with the
verdict.

"Muslims did not react violently after the verdict, fearing that they would
suffer badly in the case of riots, with police  supporting the Hindus."

Rights activist and analyst Ram Puniyani said the "Muslim community had shown a
remarkable restraint", adding that they knew any violent backlash would hit them
badly.

"Muslims comprise 13.4 per cent of the Indian population, but over 80 per cent
of victims of almost all Hindu-Muslim riots in the past decades were Muslim. The
community seems to have learnt the lesson  from past experiences of riots and
have refused to succumb to the provocations and irritants after the verdict."

However, some mosque leaders said it was not fear of  bloody repercussions that
stopped Muslims from resorting to violence.

"Riots, apart from killing or injuring people or destroying properties,
seriously affect the development of a community," said Abdul Habib, a retired
Muslim engineer and mosque leader in Lucknow.

"Muslims are identified as a backward community in India. But in recent years
younger Muslims are making good strides for the development of the community.
They cannot afford to be involved in any riot at this juncture."

There had been fears also of a violent reaction from Hindus after the ruling,
but they said they were very happy with the verdict.

"The judgment has paved the way for the construction of a grand Ram temple in
Ayodhya ... We invite everybody, including Muslims, to help build the temple,"
Mohan Bhagwat, chief of the right-wing Hindu group RSS, said on Saturday.

"The court verdict should not be seen as anybody's victory or defeat."

Raj Kishor Singh, a Hindu sweetshop owner in Lucknow, said the verdict had come
as a big gift for him and all Hindus. "We hope Muslims will give up their claims
on the land they have got at the site because they cannot build any mosque in
that small area. I am sure we shall see a big Ram temple at the site soon," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A sadhu or Hindu holy man looks on as Indian paramilitary troops guard
a temple in Ayodhya. Photo: AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             769 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             May 19, 2016 Thursday

Nas, Fitz and Rob Zombie join Misfits for Riot Fest in Chicago

BYLINE: By Brian Shamie bshamie@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 395 words


Riot Fest organizers already delivered the first volley in the war to win
fest-goer's summer spending money with last week's announcement about the
Misfits reunion headlining the Sept. 16-18 music festival in Chicago's Douglas
Park.

Today's announcement of a partial lineup should earn them a few more
Chicago-area fans.

In addition to the Misfits (featuring Glenn Danzig, Jerry Only and Wolfgang Von
Frankenstein), other fest highlights include alternative rocker and former
Smiths frontman Morrissey; the legendary Bob Mould; indie popsters Fitz & The
Tantrums; Swedish rock band The Hives; metal guru Rob Zombie's performance of
his band White Zombie's "Astro-Creep: 2000"; and lo-fi indie rockers Death Cab
for Cutie, who will undoubtedly deliver a case of the feels.

Riot Fest is holding true to form with its traditionally diverse lineup, where
you can jump from ska punks The Specials to rapper Nas to a metal set with The
Deftones.

Other highlights include New Jersey post-hardcore punk band Thursday, who
announced their reunion performance in August after five years apart, just
before heading to Riot Fest.

Punk-tinged rock band Social Distortion will perform "White Light, White Heat,
White Trash" for a special 20th anniversary performance on the exact date of the
album release in 1996.

And performances by Ween, Jimmy Eat World, NOFX, Bad Religion, Pierce the Veil,
Motion City Soundtrack, Method Man & Redman, Dan Deacon, the Meat Puppets and
The Hold Steady round out the lineup.

Chicago's local scene is leaving its imprint on the 2016 lineup, with northwest
suburban pop-punk Smoking Popes taking the stage, along with performances by
reggae rockers Deal's Gone Bad, cardigan rockers The Walters, indie rock's
Sleepy Kitty, School of Rock and west-suburban band-on-the-rise Marina City.

"It's an honor to be able to be part of this year's lineup," said Ryan Argast,
lead singer of Marina City. "This has been a fest that all six of us have gone
to every year. Since we all have different tastes in music, this fest is the
only one that we can all agree to go to. It's so refreshing to have a fest in
Chicago that's all about the music we love."

Tickets are already on sale for the Douglas Park event, with three-day general
admission passes starting at $169.98, and VIP passes running $299.98. See
riotfest.org for tickets, details and future lineup announcements.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo by Rick Fagan, courtesy of HERFitz PRRob Zombie Associated Press
file photo Rob Zombie will perform White Zombie's "Astro-Creep: 2000" at Riot
Fest in Chicago. Associated Press file photo Rob Zombie will perform White
Zombie's "Astro-Creep: 2000" at Riot Fest in Chicago.Associated Press file photo
Rapper Nas is on the lineup for Chicago's Riot Fest in September.


 Death Cab for Cutie is set to headline the UIC Pavilion in Chicago on Thursday,
Aug. 25. Death Cab for Cutie will perform at the Taste of Chicago Thursday, July
12.

 Associated Press
 Jennifer Hudson is set to headline the opening day of Taste of Chicago on
Wednesday, July 11. Courtesy of Death Cab for Cutie Indie balladeers Death Cub
for Cutie will play Chicago's Riot Fest in September.Suburban pop-punk rockers
Smoking Popes play with AM Taxi and Showoff at Chicago's Cubby Bear Friday, Dec.
18. Suburban pop-punk rockers Smoking Popes play with AM Taxi and Showoff at
Chicago's Cubby Bear Friday, Dec. 18. Courtesy of the Smoking Popes The Smoking
Popes will represent the Chicago music scene at September's Riot Fest.Associated
Press file photo Noelle Scaggs, left, and Michael Fitzpatrick of Fitz and the
Tantrums will play Riot Fest in Chicago this September. Associated Press file
photo Noelle Scaggs, left, and Michael Fitzpatrick of Fitz and the Tantrums will
play Riot Fest in Chicago this September.Courtesy of Marina City Local pop-punk
band Marina City joins Chicago's Riot Fest for the first time. Courtesy of
Marina City Local pop-punk band Marina City joins Chicago's Riot Fest for the
first time.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             770 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             May 15, 2013 Wednesday

Riot insurance law to be reviewed

LENGTH: 297  words


A LAW which provides for compensation to victims of rioting damage is to be
updated in the wake of the 2011 riots. A government spokesman said The Riot
Damages Act will be "independently reviewed to ensure it protects the vulnerable
and provides value for money." The review will examine criteria determining when
compensation is payable, including how it defines a riot and who should be
liable. The Rt Hon Damian Green, Minister for Policing and Criminal Justice,
said last week: "The Riot Damages Act was written more than a century ago and so
it is only right that we take action to ensure it is fit for purpose. "The
aftermath of the 2011 riots showed the need for improvements to speed up the
payment of compensation to those who need it and weed out frivolous claims."


Former senior civil servant Neil Kinghan will lead the review, which is expected
to be finished by September.
The government says nationally the "vast majority" of claims from the August
2011 riots have been decided.
However, The Advertiser revealed in March that politicians are aware of as many
as 40 outstanding cases in Croydon.
The London Assembly has welcomed the review.
John Biggs AM, Chair of the London Assembly's Budget and Performance Committee,
said the act was "crying out for reform."
He added: "Last year, following an in-depth investigation, we warned that the
act was not meeting the needs of riot-hit traders and we are pleased that the
Government is acting on our concerns.
"It is ridiculous that in the 21st Century we are stuck with a piece of
legislation from 1886 that does not adequately define a riot or cover damage to
cars and vans.
"The Government's new review must address these weaknesses and provide a
significantly more efficient and streamlined act, that works in the modern
world."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             771 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Haringey Independent

                                February 6, 2012

Almost 200 arrests made over riots

BYLINE: Hermione Wright

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 167  words


Nearly 200 people in Haringey have been arrested for their part in the August
riots six months ago.

The riots, which started in Tottenham on August 6, have led to 198 arrests
throughout the borough so far, with 132 people being charged or receiving a
summons.

The number could rise, as there are currently 534 arrests and 149 charges made
across London that have yet been assigned to a borough.

Darra Singh, chair of the independent riots communities and victims panel, said:
"It has been six months since the riots started in Tottenham in August and
spread throughout the country with unprecedented speed.

"Half a year on we must not forget about the communities and victims who were
seriously affected by the disorder and who are still working to re-build their
lives."

Mr Singh added that the panel would like to hear from anyone affected by the
riots, or who has evidence about the events last August.

There have been 3,864 arrests made throughout London in relation to the riots
over the past six months.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             772 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 16, 2013 Monday

Blood spilt over blaring beats

BYLINE: Avijit Ghosh

SECTION: DEEP FOCUS

LENGTH: 768 words


In a volatile nation, even minor tiffs over an unsettled restaurant bill or
dumping of garbage can trigger major communal conflagrations.

It happened in June last year. A young man washing his hands with water kept in
a tank outside a place of worship was stopped from doing so by a member of
another community. The altercation that followed spiralled into a communal clash
claiming four lives at Kosi Kalan in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district last year.

India is on the edge. Even seemingly trivial incidents are leading to communal
riots. Playing loud music during a religious procession, a petty quarrel in a
roadside eatery, or even dumping of garbage has led to incidents of violence -
looting, arson and killing - between two communities. "When the socio-political
environment is surcharged, even a small incident can trigger a much larger
crisis," says political scientist Imtiaz Ahmed.

What's trivial and what's not depends on the social history of a place. In an
article titled 'Hindu-Muslim Tension: Cause and Cure' published in Young India
in June 1924, Mahatma Gandhi wrote that cow slaughter and music outside a mosque
are two of the several reasons behind communal tension. That both these issues
raise temperatures even today - in Jharkhand's Chatra district one person was
killed after two communities clashed over loud music played in a religious
procession this February - only emphasizes the fact that continuity and change
are two sides of the same paradox that is India. Sociologist Yogendra Singh
says, "Few communal riots are the consequence of a single event. They are rather
the cumulative impact of a disaffection process, often waiting for an event,
trivial or otherwise, to spark a conflagration."

Places either with a history of communal violence or in a state of nervous
social tension over a recent development, real or imaginary, are generally
high-strung . Against such a backdrop, what could be dismissed as a minor
incident by some could have big repercussions. "In India, incidents of women
being teased are routine and often go unpunished. But in rural Muzaffarnagar
last month, it sparked a riot that eventually claimed over 40 lives," says
Ahmed. Recent cases of molestation and inter-community love affairs had caused
social tension in the area leading to the flare-up . Sociologist Dipankar Gupta
adds, "Such riots happen in areas or neighbourhoods where both sides are equally
poised."

In India, communal riots were essentially an urban phenomenon. The dangerous
thing, as Ahmed put it, is that they have now spread to rural areas. And here
the rapid proliferation of modern technology has played a part. Rural or urban,
information travels fast in the age of smartphones and social media. Last year,
a fake MMS clip showing atrocities against Muslims in Assam went viral in
Lucknow and Allahabad and caused rioting. Cops say WhatsApp was used to relay a
fake video to foment trouble in the Muzaffarnagar riots.

"Modern technology enables a mischief-maker to distort information and present
it in a believable way. Today many with 19th century social values are handling
state-ofthe-art 21st century equipment. The message that goes from their mobile
indicates their mindsets, as do their reactions to messages they receive on
them," says Singh.

Communal riots are a dark and recurring feature of modern India. But in the
1970s, says Ahmed, such riots were generally fought in the streets and were
localised affairs. After the 1980s, the character of riots changed. They became
more sophisticated.

"Rioters now had a certain target in mind such as destruction of property. The
1980 Moradabad riots, which left at least 400 dead, is a classic case. It
happened when the Muslims had attained a degree of prosperity in the area," he
says.

Besides, in 1980s and after, politicization of riots became more intense. "The
riots in Meerut, Moradabad , Delhi and Gujarat testify to that. Over the years,
riots have become an integral part of the political process. They happen when
there is something to be gained politically," says Ahmed.

In his seminal work 'Communalism in Modern India' historian Bipan Chandra argues
that "communal riots are not the main form or content of communalism" . They
are, he says, "in the main, its reflection, its active episodic expression, its
bitter and virulent manifestation and consequence, and one of the main
instruments and agencies for its spread".

It's a danger every thinking Indian should worry about.

9Additional reporting by Ashish Tripathi in Lucknow, Alok K N Mishra in Ranchi &
Prabin Kalita in Guwahati0

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             773 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                Final C Edition

Cup riot 'was not beyond imagining'; Independent review contains 53
recommendations to help prevent another night of mayhem

BYLINE: Jeff Lee, Andrea Woo, Jonathan Fowlie And Mike Hager, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1203  words


Vancouver police and city officials should have been better prepared for the
massive crowds that flooded downtown for Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Final, the
independent review of the June 15 riot has concluded.

A litany of problems plagued police as they tried to control the riot, from
faulty radios that prevented transmission of a key command, to the improper
location of needed riot control gear, to lack of a regional public safety plan,
authors Douglas Keefe and John Furlong said in their report.

They made a sweeping set of 53 recommendations they say will help prevent future
riots if they're acted on. But Furlong told reporters the two men "don't have
the courage to sit here and say there won't be another riot."

The recommendations include better control of liquor sales, better planning by
police, a coordinated regional operations plan for large events and a major
events planning team for Vancouver. They also say TransLink has a role to play
in slowing the transport of liquored-up fans on its transit lines.

The report said the riot, which broke out after the final game between the
Vancouver Canucks and the Boston Bruins,"was not beyond imagining" and could
have been predicted hours earlier given the rapidly changing atmosphere
downtown.

But by the time police were fully deployed under a friendly "meet and greet"
scenario, thousands of drunken people had flooded into the downtown and police
control evaporated.

"It is clear the [police] underestimated the number of people who would take the
whole day off to get downtown very early," the report said. "The opportunity to
establish police control was lost."

Options for adequately controlling the crowd dwindled by the hour as more than
155,000 people flooded into the downtown core.

"There was no plausible number of police that could have prevented this," Keefe
told reporters. "They did not have a lot of reactive capacity."

The report answers the controversial question of how many officers Vancouver
police deployed for Game 7.

Although Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu had long argued that number is secret
for security purposes, Furlong and Keefe said keeping it secret now is a moot
point. They said the original police plan called for 446 officers to be
deployed. By the end of riot night, 928 were on the job.

But they say that initial number was more than adequate to cover the city's
needs and noted that when Chicago won the 2009 Stanley Cup, 450 officers and 20
horses policed a crowd of 1.2 million people.

"We conclude the number of police identified in VPD's plan was appropriate given
the threat level," the report said.

But it said the police department's operational plan did not identify criteria
that would automatically trigger changes in their responses. "For example, the
VPD's plan should have required a report on the number of people downtown
beginning late in the morning and providing options for earlier deployment."

It noted "command confusion" ensued in trying to quell the riot in part because
the RCMP's tactical troops were equipped with a faulty VPD radio. As a result,
one portion of the troop did not hear a command to suit up in riot gear, causing
delay and confusion.

At the same time, the VPD put a cache of gear in a bad location at Granville and
Nelson that was later overrun by rioters.

"On an ordinary night, it might have been a small problem but on June 15 the
congestion turned it into a significant problem."

Chu said police "will be looking at all the recommendations that have been made
with a view to implementation."

He admitted mistakes were made, but maintained there was nothing more police
could have done to prevent the riot.

"In hindsight, we should have had more police officers," Chu said. "If I knew
there was going to be a riot, I would have deployed way more police officers.
But what we deployed that night - and as the report confirms - is, given the
intelligence, given the threat level ... the reasonable number of officers to
deploy."

As to how the crowds got out of hand so quickly, the report said SkyTrain was
dropping an average of 800 people into the downtown core every 80 seconds. Many
of the riders were already drunk or carried alcohol bought outside the downtown
core.

And at the critical moment when the crowds were not yet totally out of control,
nearly half of the officers retreated for a half-hour to don protective riot
gear. That left some people - whom Furlong and Keefe called "villains and thugs"
- to feel they had free rein in the city.

"To use a sports analogy, they probably felt the referee had put his whistle in
his pocket," Keefe said.

Despite those conclusions, Keefe and Furlong say that on balance the lessons
from the riot shouldn't preclude Vancouver from holding large public events
downtown in future.

Mayor Gregor Robertson heartily endorsed the independent review. "I think the
whole city had a sense of invincibility after the Olympics and after all of the
Stanley Cup playoffs up until Game 7," he said. "This was a very, very stern and
troubling reminder that this can break out.

"This can happen to any city, and it's a lot worse in many other cities. I think
we're fortunate it wasn't a lot more damaging and there wasn't loss of life."

Robertson urged Solicitor-General Shirley Bond and the region's police chiefs to
adopt a report recommendation to create a regional police unit to deal with
large events that draw people from across the Lower Mainland.

"They've got protocols in place for homicide and gang task force, I think it's
important that they have that as well for big-scale events," he said.

As for Robertson's role, Keefe and Furlong concluded the mayor "played no part
in directing police planning or financial discussions."

But they recommended the solicitor-general change the Police Act to remove
mayors from serving as the heads of police boards, saying it creates an inherent
conflict for a mayor as both the top politician and the person to whom police
departments have to report.

Robertson has said in the past he doesn't want to be the chairman of the police
board but must serve in that role because of the legislation.

Premier Christy Clark said her government will give all the report's
recommendations "serious consideration."

"We're going to look into all of the recommendations and get a feel for which we
can do quickly and which ones we should take a little more time with."

Bond said she has asked the deputy attorney-general to investigate whether
changes can be made to liquor distribution rules. She has also asked the chief
judge of the Provincial Court to consider how to expeditiously handle the large
number of charges expected to be laid against rioters.

New Democratic Party public safety critic Kathy Corrigan said the report
contains good recommendations, but a key question is who will pay to ensure they
are properly implemented. Some "have a pretty hefty price tag attached to them
when you talk about community courts and when you talk about a regional approach
to policing," she said. "The province and the municipalities and the police
forces involved need to sit down and have a discussion, and it can't be a
top-down approach."

jefflee@vancouversun.com awoo@vancouversun.com jfowlie@vancouversun.com
mhager@postmedia.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gerry Kahrmann,  PNG Files; A Canucks fan yells in front of a burning
car as the riot broke out after the Vancouver Canucks lost to the Boston Bruins
in the 2011 Stanley Cup Final on June 15. Nearly three months after the city
erupted in violence, an independent review was released Thursday with the goal
of helping to prevent future chaos.; Arlen Redekop,  PNG Files;  An average of
800 people every 80 seconds were being dropped into the downtown core by the
SkyTrain, according to the report, and many were drunk or bringing along their
own alcohol.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             774 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday

Social activists writes to usaman seeking imp info

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, Nov. 26 -- To expose alleged irregularities and siphoning off
government money sanctioned to rehabilitate or for distribution of compensation
to riot victims, some social activists had used Right to Information (RTI).

They filed applications in this regard with the local administration in Shamli
as well as in Muzaffarnagar, and after failing to get any reply, took the matter
in the court of State Information Commissioner, Hafiz Usman, who finally ordered
divisional commissioner of Saharanpur, to make in-depth probe on utilization of
use of government aide for the riot victims and submit a report within a month
so that necessary action could be taken in the matter.

Giving details in this regard, Usman told RsThe Pioneer' here on Wednesday that
to conceal the irregularities made in distribution of government's relief sent
for riot victims of Muzaffarnagar, Shamli etc about a year back, the local
administration averted to reply to some RTI queries filed in this regard. He
said that one of the RTI filed by an activist sought details from the
administration in Shamli that how much quota of food grains has been given to
RsKotedars' (Fair Price Shop Owners) in Bawadi locality before September 2013
and between September 2013 till September 2014, when the riot broke, how many
BLP and Antoudhya card holders were in Bawadi, how many of them had not
collected food grains between the above period i.e September 2013 till September
2014, and how many families had not used their cards and the reason behind it.
Usman said that the RTI activists served several reminders to get detail of the
above, but is was alleged that since all the families were collecting food
grains, so the claims of the administration that about 5000 families have been
displaced due to riots would be exposed, the officials concerned had avoided to
provide information.

Similarly the RTI activists also sought detail from Minority Welfare Department
that how much relief fund they received, the list of persons who they forwarded
the said benefit, details of the expenditure if it was made on other heads,
instead of distributing it to riot victims etc. The RTI activists also sought
details of the persons killed in the riots, amount of compensation given to
their family members, initiate taken to rehabilitate their families, details of
persons who remained in shelter homes during riots and money spent on them etc.

Usman claimed that the officers had not given reply on any of the RTIs so since
the matter now comes in his court, he ordered the divisional commissioner of
Saharanpur to probe the matter particularly that whether the information of
displacement of families is right or wrong and if true, than how the all the
poor families having BPL or Antoudya card continued collecting food grains, how
many persons had died and the details of the family members who the compensation
has been forwarded etc. He also claimed to have asked that what steps had
government taken to make new cards for the families which were displaced in the
riots. Usman said that once the report would arrive it might give clear picture
of what actually happened in the riots, how many were killed or how many
families were displaced and that how the government help reached to the right
person.

It may be mentioned that earlier also irregularities galore in distribution of
relief money to riot victims. An appeal was filed by a resident of Lisad area in
Shamli before Usman in which the complainant appraise him that the house of one
Naseebudin, was burnt during the riots which broke out in Muzaffarnagar and
Shamli. Later under the state government's announcement of facilitating monetary
help as compensation to the riot victims, the officials declared to give
Naseebudin Rs 5 lakh. However, when Naseebudin did not recovered the money, he
along with his nephew Dilshad aka Nanu, went to enquire the matter from the
local thesildar. It may be mentioned here that as Naseebudin had no issues so he
adopted his nephew Nanu.

Nanu, on behalf of Naseebudin, took several rounds of the thesil office only to
learn that officials record showed that his uncle Naseebudin already received
the Rsmoney'. However, whom the money was actually paid, he failed to get any
information so he filed an application under the RTI Act. When the thesil
officials not gave reply to the RTI, the victim came and filed an appeal before
Usman so the SIC summoned the entire records.

Usman disclosed that during his hearing, the Nayab Tehsildar of Shamli told him
that as Nanu were five brothers so finding that they would have dispute, they
deposited the compensation money in their father Niyazudin's bank account and
not in Naseebudin's bank account. He claimed that when he enquired the matter
further, he was surprised to find that even Niyazudin, in whose account the
money is said to be transferred is already dead and he never hold any bank
account.

Usman said that even then he asked the Nayab thesildar to provide that account
number of Niyazudin in which they deposited the money but they failed to do so.
He claimed that during the above enquiry, he also detected that not just in the
above case but in many other incidents also, the compensation money has been
siphoned off by the officers concerned both in Shamli and at Muzaffarnagar
districts.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             775 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           February 25, 2014 Tuesday

Opposition runs riot in assembly over Muzaffarnagar riots

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 373 words


LUCKNOW: There was pandemonium in the house once again over Muzaffarnagar riots
with opposition members of Bahujan Samaj Party and Bharatiya Janata Party
members jumping into the well and forcing the Speaker to adjourn the proceeding
for 15 minutes.

The din began during question hour when replying to the first question the
government stated that four riots took place in the last two years resulting in
loss of 57 lives and injuries to 136. Infuriated over the reply, the BSP members
jumped into the well of the House claiming the government had failed to
rehabilitate riot victims and several of them were still in the camps. This led
to heated exchange of words between BSP members and treasury benches.

During one such exchange, parliamentary affairs minister Mohammad Azam Khan
accused the BSP members of being involved in the Muzaffarnagar riots. Khan
stated further that proceeding to slap NSA on some of those involved is
underway.

While the BSP members returned to their seats, Azam's statement irked BJP
members who claimed that when others were involved in the riots why were BJP
members booked? The BJP members jumped into the well of the House and demanded
that the state government reveal who all were behind the riots.

Despite repeated requests by Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey, the BJP members led by
its leader and deputy leader Hukkum Singh and Satish Mahana continued to lay
siege. Though most of the allegations and counter-allegations could not be
heard, following the din, the Speaker adjourned the House for 10 minutes
initially and extended it to further 5 minutes.

Normalcy returned after the House proceedings began again.

Earlier, the state government in a written reply stated that instructions had
been given to the district magistrates and police chiefs to ensure that
government order dated September 8, 2009 to maintain communal harmony was
followed. The officials have also been directed to take stern action against
troublemakers.

The government has also ordered installing of CCTVs at sensitive spots in the
districts which are communally sensitive. Replying further the government stated
that in 2009-10, one riot was reported. The riot had resulted in injuries to 28
persons.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             776 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                  May 26, 1995

Hungry for greed to end; Economics; Books

BYLINE: MEGHNAD DESAI

SECTION: Issue 1177, Pg.29

LENGTH: 894 words


MARKETS AND FOOD RIOTS: THE POLITICS OF GLOBAL ADJUSTMENT By John Walton and
David Seddon Blackwell, 385pp, Pounds 45.00 and Pounds 14.99 ISBN 0 631 18245 4.

Much of the 1980s was a story of greed and misery. Countries on the verge of
debt default or facing balance of payments crises had to resort to the
International Monetary Fund for loans and, in return, agree to a structural
adjustment/stabilisation programme. In those heady days of triumphal monetarism,
the Fund was all in favour of controlling money supply via control of deficits;
medicine it had already prescribed to the UK in 1976. Cutting deficits can of
course be done by raising taxation but, given the nature of the elite in these
countries, this was hardly likely. So those who had pocketed the loans got away
with the money and the burden of adjustment fell on the poor. Food subsidies
were cut, expenditure on health and education reduced, prices 'brought in line
with the market'.

None of this should have surprised anyone. After all, in the two decades before
the debt crisis the poor had hardly fared much better in Latin America or
Sub-Saharan Africa. But since there was now an external element to the misery,
the elite could point to the IMF and blame international forces.

Free Markets and Food Riots is a contribution to that tradition. It concentrates
on the popular unrest in the period between the mid-1970s and the early 1990s.
After an introduction by the editors which surveys food riots past and present,
there are seven case studies which, except for one on women's response, takes in
regions one by one. The better essays are those which go beyond the IMF focus
and study the internal dynamics.

The exclusive focus on 'IMF riots' (to use a shorthand) in the introduction is,
in my view, a pity because it diverts attention from the many more protest
movements which go on in developing countries as the poor try to survive. Thus
over the period 1976 to 1992 and across 39 countries, the editors list 146
riots. This may sound a lot but it is around one riot every fourth year per
country or 0.25 per country-year. This is too few riots to be serious. Half the
riots (77) are in 11 Latin American countries. India is listed as having had
only three riots and all in 1992, since by definition the many riots of the
Indian poor before borrowing from the IMF do not matter.

The Indian study by Mridula Udayagiri does focus much more on the longer history
of the Indian development experience, though even here the rich data on the
rising anti-government protest by the poor - dalits, tribals, urban and rural
workers - is given much less space than the short period since 1991 when India
started liberalising. Sri Lanka has always been a model case of welfare
development. The change in the political leadership in the late 1970s which
brought about tensions in the Sri Lankan paradise are well analysed by Herring
but even he, in my opinion, gives far too little space to the Tamil/Sinhala
conflict whose roots extend much further than the liberalisation period.

Women's responses are ably covered by Victoria Daines and David Seddon. They go
beyond women as victims and take up the active and innovative strategies used by
women in their struggle for survival. Latin America has been in the forefront of
the protests. Here the decline in growth rate was much sharper (from 5 per cent
in 1960 to 1 per cent in the 1980s) than in Africa, where the decline was from 6
per cent in the 1970s to 3.6 per cent in the 1980s . This region is studied by
John Walton and Jonathan Shefner, combining both a quantitative and a
comparative political approach. The complex interaction between the extreme
inequalities of wealth, the educated and politically conscious and the
oligarchic governments yields many patterns.

Sub-Saharan Africa is a puzzle. In the 1960s it had a better chance of
developing than Asia, if you compared their resources, or the productivity of
their agriculture, or the ratio of land to population. It had a shorter colonial
experience than many countries in Asia and many countries gained independence
after a relatively short struggle compared say to India or Indonesia. Still,
while Asia is a 'miracle' region of the 1990s, Africa's problems seem insoluble.
The nature of the African state may be very much at the root of the problem, as
Basil Davidson has argued recently in his Black Man's Burden. Stephen Riley and
Trevor Parfitt quite properly pay a lot of attention to the political dimension
in their chapter.

The pressures to repay foreign loans had a benign outcome in Eastern Europe
since the single party regimes could not cope with the protests this led to. Of
course liberalisation is no picnic but, although the essay by the editors on
this region seems to focus much more on the later period than the earlier
history, some of the horrendous costs of adjustment in that region are due to
the detritus of the scrapheap of old accumulation, but this is not taken on
board.

All in all an uneven but, in parts, interesting collection. If only development
studies overcomes its one-sided emphasis on IMF/World Bank phobia and studies
the many little domestic oppressions as well, the poor may yet be thankful.

Lord Desai is director of the Centre for the Study of Global Governance, London
School of Economics.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1995 TSL Education Limited


                             777 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

Baltimore youth push for nonviolence

BYLINE: Tonyaa Weathersbee

SECTION: Tonyaa Weathersbee; Pg. A-11

LENGTH: 580 words


BALTIMORE - Last week, this city was simmering from the aftermath of riots that
occurred in the wake of an African-American man dying after being confronted by
police.

On April 12, police here chased and restrained 25-year-old Freddie Gray.
Unbelted and handcuffed, he suffered a spinal injury while riding in a police
van. He died from that injury days later. The medical examiner's office has
since ruled it a homicide, and six officers have been charged.

Peaceful protesters initially filled the streets after Gray's death.

But those marches soon disintegrated into riots with people, many of them black
youths, looting and burning local businesses.

Curfews were instituted.

The National Guard was mobilized.

And I saw the results of that chaos.

WORKING FOR PEACE

But during my brief time hanging around Pennsylvania and North Avenues, where
much of the uprising took place, I also saw something else:

Many African-American youths who realized that the riots had damaged their city
- and who embraced the fact that they could play a constructive role in helping
undo that damage.

During the daytime, many youths stood on corners and wore signs with messages
like "I Still Love Baltimore" and "No Room for Hate in My City."

All of the signs included the hashtag #rebuild.

Hip-hop radio stations played all-day messages urging an end to the violence.

On numerous corners around the riot zones, youths performed dances.

Some openly prayed.

And a group of youths rode down Pennsylvania Avenue right up to the line of
officers decked out in riot gear.

They honked their horns and chanted, "No More Riots! No More Riots!"

"They're looking at us, they're looking at us," one of the youths said,
referring to the hordes of officers and reporters.

"We're here to do something positive," the youth added.

IT WAS INSPIRATIONAL

What they did was inspiring.

They made an eloquent statement about their power to change the image of their
city.

But what remains disturbing is that these youths were forced to show that power
in the aftermath of a riot.

A riot that was spawned not simply by Gray's death in police custody but also by
underlying issues, such as unemployment, poverty and powerlessness.

History tells us that such feelings of powerlessness can lead to civil unrest.

When the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, known as the Kerner
Commission, issued its report in 1968 on the root causes of the riots that had
torn through America's cities, it found that police practices often fed the
tensions that led to the riots.

But the study also found that high unemployment was another major source of
tension.

Baltimore's black youths aged 20 to 24 have an unemployment rate of around 37
percent, according to the Census' 2013 American Community Survey.

In Jacksonville last year, that number was as high as 49 percent.

Melissa Boteach, vice-president of the Center for American Progress'
Poverty-to-Prosperity Program, said the protests "should be a wake-up call not
just to reform our criminal justice system but to work on creating jobs" - and
addressing the other root causes that helped lead to the unrest.

"We have to find a way to reach those who aren't being reached," Boteach told
me.

Of course, more jobs won't stop police who abuse and devalue black citizens.

But more jobs can be a step in making many black youths believe they have real
futures in their communities.

And to realize that they have a stake in protecting, rather than destroying,
those communities.

Email: tonyaaweathersbee@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Florida Times-Union


                             778 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                           macclesfield-express.co.uk

                     October 20, 2016 Thursday 3:48 PM GMT

Crowd-funding appeal to bring Banksy exhibition to Macclesfield;
The ADP Riot Tour, which was borne out of Banksy's dystopian theme park, could
come to Macclesfield for one week.

BYLINE: By Rhiannon McDowall

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


A group of art lovers are appealing for support to bring part of a Banksy pop-up
exhibition to town.

Street artist Banksy, known for his political satire, opened 'Dismaland' as a
temporary art project based on a dystopian world, and attracted thousands of
visitors during its five week appearance.

Now Macclesfield is being given the opportunity to host one of the
installations, and community arts organisation Artspace is encouraging residents
to pledge their cash and make it happen.

The exhibit, by artist Jimmy Cauty and part of the 'ADP Riot Tour', is a 40ft
shipping container which houses a miniature depiction of a post-riot landscape.

Adults and children can view the installation - which will be based at Exchange
Square - through peepholes in the walls of the container.

Jane Munro, from the group and co-founder of the Barnaby Festival, said the
Macclesfield Riot of 1812 - during which farmers and market traders fought over
prices - means the town is the perfect host for the exhibit.

She said: "This is a really exciting project but we need everyone's help to make
it happen.

Family devastated after baby girl diagnosed with cancer

"The Riot Tour is only visiting towns or cities that have a history of riots and
I'm sure it'll come as quite a surprise to some people that we had our very own
riot back in 1812.

"It's a fascinating part of Macclesfield's history and we want to celebrate it
by bringing this fantastic Riot Tour into town.

"Far from inciting another riot, we hope the experience of the ADP in
Macclesfield's Exchange Square will be a fun, peaceful and thought-provoking
one."

Artspace has launched a crowd-funding campaign to raise £2,000 towards bringing
the temporary exhibition to the town.

If fundraising is successful, spin-off events will include a launch party with
live music, family friendly activities in and around Exchange Square, plus a
reenactment of the riot itself next year.

People will also get incentives for pledging cash for the installation,
including tickets for the opening event, limited edition memorabilia or
sponsorship packages, depending on how much is donated.

Anyone wishing to pledge their support should visit
www.spacehive.com/adp-in-macclesfield . For more information about the tour go
to facebook.com/Jimmy CautyADP.

Before the bench

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBME


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             779 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Front: Former Met chief fears more riots to come on UK streets

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


Britain may face years of public disorder fuelled by the economic crisis, with
police battling to keep control of the streets, a former Scotland Yard chief has
warned.

Lord Stevens made his warning at the launch of an independent commission into
the future of policing, which has been set up by Labour as it tries to outflank
the government on law and order.

Last night a senior police source told the Guardian that Stevens's warning was
shared by most police chiefs and Scotland Yard said: "We anticipate the
potential for the increased demands of both peaceful protest and greater
criminal disorder threats from a minority continuing into 2012. Our resourcing
levels and tactics will reflect lessons learned from 2011."

Stevens said the way that outbreaks of public disorder are policed will be a key
issue, given police failings when England was hit this summer by some of the
worst riots in living memory: "The next 18 months, two to three years, one of
the main issues will be public order, or rather public disorder." Asked what
could be causes of the disorder, Stevens said: " Looking ahead into the crystal
ball, I think you can see there is disquiet on the streets. I'm really concerned
about youth unemployment, and unemployment generally, I'm really concerned about
signs of increasing crime. My gut feeling and beyond, is that it's going to be a
very difficult 18 months (to) two years. I hope that I'm wrong, but I don't
think I am."

He said he hoped any disorder would not be on the scale of the summer riots of
2011 but warned that "the police will have to be match-fit on this issue".

Stevens said the police response to this summer's riots led them to lose control
of the streets. He added that the first riot in Tottenham, north London, after a
police shooting, should have been anticipated. During the summer riots police
had been "acting a day behind"' events, he added.

Stevens said it "rang alarm bells" that stop and search was an issue, and police
must be better at explaining to communities what they are doing and be better at
listening to their concerns.

Some of the concerns raised by Stevens echoed the findings of the Guardian/LSE's
Reading the Riots study, which has revealed that a key factor in the August
riots was discontent with the police, with stop and search one of the most hated
aspects. A Whitehall source said ministers rejected Stevens's analysis, saying
there was nothing to indicate there would be renewed disorder; nor was it
inevitable rising unemployment would lead to trouble. The source added the
government view was the cause of the summer riots was "not about deprivation or
distrust of the police, it's about getting free stuff". Tough sentences would
act as a deterrent and the police were now better able to quell trouble. But
Stevens's warnings carry weight not just because of his tenure as Britain's top
officer, but because he has been courted by and advised both Labour and the
Conservatives.

The inquiry that Stevens will chair, which will report by 2013, is the first in
five decades to promise a root-and-branch examination. It comes as police face
large cuts, with rank-and-file officers saying cuts to their pay and conditions
have hit morale. Labour says the coalition government rebuffed its calls for a
royal commission into policing, so it effectively set up its own. Stevens, the
last commissioner of the Metropolitan police to complete his term in office,
warned the government not to be "insulting" or "arrogant" in dismissing the work
of the panel of academics and former police chiefs that he will chair.

Paul McKeever, chair of the Police Federation, said: "We welcome the independent
commission - it's going some way to what we've been calling for for years, to
look at things in a holistic way, rather than in a piecemeal way, as the
government has done." The policing minister, Nick Herbert, has said it was wrong
for Labour to be "subcontracting decisions on police reform - reform which they
espoused in government and are now opportunistically opposing - to a committee".
The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, said: "My fear is that policing in
Britain now faces a perfect storm. The scale of the cuts, the chaos of confused
reforms, escalating demands and declining morale."

Captions:

'My gut feeling and beyond is that it'll be a very difficult two years. I hope
I'm wrong, but I don't think I am'

Lord Stevens

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             780 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

Stanley Cup called 'recipe for disaster';
Bad planning by city led to volatile factors that came together in violence and
mayhem, top Vancouver police riot investigator says

BYLINE: STEVEN CHASE and IAN BAILEY

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; RIOTS IN VANCOUVER; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA and VANCOUVER


The lead police investigator for the 2011 Stanley Cup riots says the City of
Vancouver's decision to allow throngs of young people to congregate and drink in
the downtown core was a "recipe for disaster."

The Vancouver Police Department has previously said some of its recommendations
in the lead-up to the June, 2011, Stanley Cup finals were ignored, but police
have not criticized the city so directly before now.

Sergeant Dale Weidman, speaking to an Ottawa security and intelligence
conference Wednesday, prefaced his statement by noting he has to "keep some of
my comments to myself because I still have to bring home a paycheque."

But, he said, it was bad planning to let a volatile mix of factors come together
in the streets surrounding the Cup final at Vancouver's Rogers Arena.

"Somebody in the city of Vancouver decided to, thought, it was a good idea to
pack in 100,000-plus people in a confined area and allow them to have access to
alcohol," Sgt. Weidman said.

He boiled down the factors at play in the crowds behind the June 15 riots:
"Young, alcohol, confined area. In my world, one plus one equals two.

"That's maybe," he said, "a recipe for disaster."

Sgt. Weidman's comments were a blunt look at the challenges that have been
facing police and the Crown as they react to pressure to bring charges against
suspects in the riot, which caused millions of dollars in damage in downtown
Vancouver and left 100 people injured.

The day after the riots, Vancouver Chief Constable Jim Chu laid blame for the
mayhem at the feet of veteran scofflaws, fingering "criminals, anarchists and
thugs who were bent on destruction and mayhem."

Days later, he said his original assessment applied to the instigators of the
chaos, but acknowledged rioters represented a wide spectrum of society.

Sgt. Weidman on Wednesday said the June 15 offenders were amateurs.

"There wasn't a so-called professional rioter element in this," he told the 2011
Canadian Association for Security and Intelligence Studies conference.

"Unlike some other riots, this riot occurred because of alcohol, because of
young males being jackasses," he said. "That's really what it came down to."

He noted, for instance, that rioters in some cases made poor efforts to disguise
themselves. "One guy ... he put his hat in front of his face," Sgt. Weidman
said.

The police officer voiced the "tonne of pressure" he felt as the media and
public questioned the speed with which authorities were laying charges. "Believe
me, from my perspective, it got pretty tired pretty quickly. ... We had to
gather evidence first."

Sgt. Weidman said police received 5,000 hours of video from security cameras and
the public, adding it took a lot of time to properly document sources behind the
clips.

By comparison, he said, police after the 1994 Stanley Cup riots in Vancouver had
only 100 hours of video to review.

"The majority of the public think that we can just charge people and throw them
in jail,  he said.

The officer said police have identified 313 separate "crime events" during the
riots, some of which involved hundreds of people.

Sgt. Weidman acknowledged in response to an audience question that aggressive
defence lawyers could probably thwart or slow convictions stemming from the
riots by questioning evidence-gathering.

"It's going to come down to money," the officer said.

"If I was a defence lawyer, this could be an opportunity to make a bit and so
then you would attack it, the case, with [a focus on] continuity of evidence."

Added the officer: 'You could, if you were so inclined, stretch this out to be
quite a long trial per person."

He noted there is currently a year-long wait between when somebody is charged
and when they go to trial in B.C.

"So this thing could be a long process."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             781 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Monitor (Kampala)

                             August 15, 2011 Monday

Lessons Nation Should Learn From Global Riots [opinion]

BYLINE: Jenkins Kiwanuka

LENGTH: 637  words


We read in American history that riots in the slums of many large American
cities during the mid 1960s caused extensive property damage, and that after the
riots of 1967, President Johnson appointed a commission to investigate the
causes and recommend a course of action.

The commission's report, issued in February 1968, placed most of the blame on
'white racism' and recommended action by all levels of government to provide
employment, better housing, improved education and more adequate police
protection for black ghetto residents. Two months later, in April, black
civil-rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in Memphis.

I arrived in Washington DC in 1969, but stories were still ripe about what had
happened in America's capital city during the riots. "Burn, burn baby, burn",
the black American youth screamed as they ravaged the city, setting fire to
buildings, motor vehicles and other property. As tension intensified, the
government went out of its way and appealed to popular artiste like the late
James Brown a.k.a 'Soul Brother No 1', to assist in putting down the riots. The
rioters responded positively.

Before going to America, I had lived in London for three years as a diplomat.
But during all that time, the nearest disturbance to a riot that I witnessed was
the so-called West Indian annual carnival, during which the Police deployed
heavily but arrested mainly drug users. News reports that the on-going riots in
London are the worst in decades are hence not exaggerated.

But that is not to say there were no hooligans in London. Unruly youths,
especially the so-called 'red heads', abounded around the city, and one day,
while I was having a drink at a joint in East London with my friend Kenneth
Kereere, a gang dropped a rock onto my car from an upstairs balcony, causing a
dent that resembled a Rwenzori mountain crater.

Incidentally, today's London is not yesterday's London because it is inhabited
more by immigrant races than the English to whom it originally belonged. The
last time I was there, every other car I saw was driven by a Filipino, an Indian
or an African. Even the Police, other security organs, financial and related
business establishments now employ people from the 'other races'. It is no
longer strange to find a black police officer striding beside a white colleague
on the streets of London. I was therefore not surprised when the first SOS I
received from London at the beginning of the riots was in Luganda. It read:
'Banange mutuweereze ku 'Kiboko Squad' to discipline these hooligans'.

The sender was appealing to Uganda to send to London the notorious squad
(allegedly a police unit), which uses whips to disperse anti-government
protesters in Kampala but which Police Inspector General Kale Kayihura has
disowned. Recent photographs about the London riots have indicated, however,
that the British have their own kibooko squads that they have since deployed in
London and other trouble spots to quell the riots.

Elsewhere, more than 90,000 people are reported to have signed an online
petition calling for anyone convicted of taking part in the riots and looting to
lose the benefits they receive from the British government. If Uganda with its
huge young population and lack of employment opportunities is an example, such
actions will not stop riots because they will not eliminate the economic and
social hardships that population is experiencing.

What Uganda and Britain need to do is to introduce economic reforms that will
lessen the gap between the haves and have-nots in their countries. They should
find answers to questions such as the one a British youth raised: "We ain't got
no jobs, no money", he said, but "We heard that other people were getting things
for free, so why not us?"

Mr Kiwanuka is a journalist and retired foreign service officer

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             782 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                             July 24, 1992, Friday

Police link Class War anarchists to city riots

BYLINE: Peter Dobbie

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1107 words


AS NEW riot violence swept through towns in the North again during the night,
police hunting the ringleaders were putting the blame on anarchists from the
Class War movement.

Special surveillance techniques were used to target and arrest key rioters.
Detectives have confirmed many are outsiders.

Class War issued a warning today that: 'This will be the summer when Tory
Britain will blaze.'

But the statement from Tim Scargill, national co-ordination secretary for Class
War, said suggestions that the riots were orchestrated by outside agitators was
'complete and utter rubbish'.

Today, West Yorkshire and Lancashire police confirmed they were investigating
the involvement of Class War in the riots.

A spokesman for the West Yorkshire force said: 'We have known for some time that
outsiders were involved in the riots and we are now actively investigating the
possible involvement of Class War.'

Some of the youths used CB radios and expensive scanners to monitor the police
communications, said Chief Superintendent Stuart Clough, in charge of the West
Yorkshire Police operation.

Hundreds of officers in riot gear came under attack from youths throwing petrol
bombs and stones in Blackburn and Huddersfield during a second night of trouble.

In Burnley, there was a fifth night of disturbances. There were 62 arrests
altogether there and in Blackburn.

The rioting is in estates which, until recently, have been considered showcase
council housing with no sign of problem residents.

Youths blame unemployment and lack of entertainment for sparking off the riots.

Police have used helicopters, equipped with special one million candlepower
Dragon spotlights, and snatch squads to identify ringleaders and arrest them
from amid groups of rioters.

The latest incident in Huddersfield was in the early hours of today when police
officers found themselves being pelted with stones and petrol bombs.  One
policeman was treated in hospital.

Mr Clough said the use of CB radios there suggested a higher degree of
organisation than he had believed.

He added: 'I have little doubt that some people are trying very hard to make
life more difficult for the police.'

He said many of the troublemakers were from outside the area and arrests could
follow today.

Talks had taken place earlier between police and community leaders on the
Brackenhall Estate but trouble flared up again at 12.30am, despite police
keeping a low profile.

In Blackburn, 40 youths were arrested when rival gangs of Indian and Pakistani
youths turned against the police in a copycat riot of the night before when 800
youths ran amok.

Police said 51 petrol bombs had been recovered and claimed there had obviously
been some element of planning involved in the unrest.

Class War is already thought to be behind leaflets distributed in Bristol during
rioting there.

And the organisation has warned it plans to stage a series of rallies at
'flashpoint' estates across the country, including Wood End and the Broadwater
Farm estate in Tottenham, where Pc Keith Blakelock was hacked to death in the
1985 riots.

The statement by Mr Scargill said: 'We say the only people who are responsible
for inciting the riots are the Tory Government.

'Police say that we have orchestrated a national tour of riots. To this we say
that if this is the case, our tour will continue if the communities nationwide
decide to take up arms against police.'

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Police wielding riot shileds seal off streets in the Whalley Range area
of Blackburn during last night's violence

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             783 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                        April 7, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Mulayam's wisdom: Modi took so many lives and didn't give a single rupee, but UP
govt gave Rs.115 cr assistance to Muzaffarnagar riots victims!

LENGTH: 312  words


Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh): On his maiden visit to Muzaffarnagar since the
deadly communal violence seven months ago, Mulayam Singh Yadav today defended UP
government's handling of the riots and claimed Rs 115-crore assistance was given
to victims unlike in Gujarat where "not a single rupee" was spent by Narendra
Modi on the 2002 riots affected.

Addressing a rally in the western UP district that will go to polls on April 10,
the Samajawadi Party supremo reached out to Muslims, and said his government had
initiated a number of schemes for their welfare.

With SP government under attack for handling of communal riots that left over 60
people dead and thousands of others homeless, Mulayam claimed the administration
had successfully controlled the violence in two days.

"The riots were unfortunate. We decided to give job to one member of each
affected family. We assisted them in housing. SP government provided an
assistance of Rs 115 crore to riot victims. Such a big amount was never
distributed as relief to riot victims in the country.

"They say Modi, Modi. He took so many lives.... Gujarat government did not give
a single rupee to the riot victims.

"UP government has distributed relief amount to riot victims without any
discrimination," the former chief minister said.

Referring to the Sachchar committee report, he said that Mulims are economically
backward and the state government has planned various welfare schemes for them.

He said that no party would gain majority in the elections. The Third Front will
form government and SP will emerge as the largest party.

He claimed that Samajwadi party would win more than 50 per cent of the 80 seats
in Utter Pradesh.

SP leader said that Muslims and farmers have been ignored in the country and
they needed a helping hand to improve their condition. He appealed to the people
to vote for SP candidate Virender Singh.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             784 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday
                                  Pune Edition

Cong has apologized for '84 riots,Modi has not: Singhvi

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 238 words


New Delhi: Congress on Tuesday said apology from the party leadership for the
1984 riots set it apart from Narendra Modi who is accused of orchestrating the
2002 anti-Muslim carnage,slamming the comparison between the two parties as well
as the pogroms as "odious".AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said PM Manmohan
Singh and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had apologized for the anti-Sikh riots
more than once and that too 10 years ago.He said the Gujarat riots were
different because apart from apology,the process of reconciliation over the past
12 years as well as the transfer of riot cases out of Gujarat showed that the
state government was suspect."There was en masse transfer of cases from
Gujarat,done for the first time in the country.That was a vote of no-confidence
(in the state),else why would the Supreme Court transfer cases?" Singhvi
asked.The Congress spokesman said terrible events like riots could not be
compared because they were all unpardonable but Congress could not be blamed for
the Sikh riots like Modi is for Gujarat riots.For the full report,log on to
www.timesofindia.com Courts should take suo motu notice: SAD P unjab deputy CM
Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the courts should take suo motu notice of
Rahul Gandhi's remarks in an interview to Times Now that some of his partymen
were involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots,asking Punjab Congress leaders to quit
the party after such a "confession".TNN

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             785 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 20, 2012 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

44 KILLED IN PRISON RIOT;
INMATES CAPTURE GUARD

BYLINE: MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 227 words


A PRISON riot in Mexico left about 44 people dead yesterday, a security official
claimed.

Nuevo Leon state spokesman Jorge Domene Zambrano said the violence broke out at
about 2am.

He added authorities at the state prosecutor's office reported 40 dead.

The official said a group of inmates in one cell block started to riot and took
a guard hostage.

The riot then spread to a second cell block.

He added authorities regained control within a couple of hours.

Distraught families of the prisoners gathered yesterday morning outside the jail
in Apodaca outside the northern city of Monterrey, seeking word of the victims.

Deadly fights happen periodically in Mexican prisons.

Gangs and drug cartels stage jail breaks and battle for control of
penitentiaries, often with the involvement of officials. A total of 31 prisoners
died in January in a riot in the city of Altimara in Tamaulipas state, which
borders Texas.

Another jail fight in Matamoros last October left 20 inmates dead and 12
injured.

In July, the death toll in a prison riot in Juarez reached 17. Mexican
authorities detained the director and four guards over that clash.

Surveillance video showed two inmates opening doors to let armed prisoners into
a room where the slain victims were holding a party.

Twenty-three people died in a Durango city jail riot in 2010, and a 2009 riot in
Gomez Palacio left 19 dead.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIOLENT Prisoners attack security fence after riot in Apodaca prison
yesterday ANGUISH Relatives

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             786 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

Time to check you're covered ; Help on hand for hardest hit ; Help for staff hit
by rioters ; Tough choices for retailers

BYLINE: Adam Jupp

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1875 words


MANCHESTER-based employment services company, Peninsula, has urged businesses to
be sympathetic employees affected by rioting.

Managing director Peter Done said: Employers haven't been in a situation like
this for some time, it is unknown territory and employers are concerned that the
riots will continue.

We are receiving a lot of calls from employers who are reporting increased
absenteeism levels and from employees whose homes and communities have been
damaged or disrupted.

A lot of workers have also called in sick because they are worried that they
there will be more riots this evening and they are genuinely scared.

Employers want try and be sympathetic but at the same time they have a business
to run and the disruptive behaviour instigated by the minorities have created
mayhem for both employee and employer.

My advice is for employers to be sympathetic to your employees; this is a
difficult time for both you and workers. Look at making provisions, possibly
sending workers home earlier.

COMMERCIAL insurance brokers have urged businesses to immediately contact their
insurers to check they are adequately insured.

Insurance professionals pointed to ensuring both the scope of the policies and
the sums insured are at suitable levels. Riot damage is covered by most policies
but the current circumstances indicate this is worth confirming, they said.

Managing director of Towergate Insurance North West, Mike Shelley, based at
Heaton Mersey, Stockport, said: In most cases, claims as a result of damage
caused by the riots will be covered under a commercial or personal insurance
policy under the insured peril of Riot and Civil Commotion.

However, Shelley insisted businesses should have their cover confirmed by the
insurer. Towergate Insurance employs 4,000 staff at 100 offices throughout the
UK.

Any claims should be immediately notified, said Shelley.

Steve Chelton, Swinton Group claims manager, said: Most commercial insurance
policies should cover businesses for damage to their premises, including
interruptions to business caused by the riots and those whose trade is affected
by the aftermath.

Some policies may even cover businesses which are not damaged, but whose trade
has been affected as a result of the violence.

Victims of the crimes should make detailed notes on events and the circumstances
surrounding the incidents for future reference to loss adjusters.

Businesses unaffected so far by the riots should bear in mind what may happen in
days and weeks to come, and arrange cover accordingly.

Victims should also be aware of an ancient law that allows uninsured businesses
to recover compensation for damage caused by riots directly from the police.

The Riot (Damages) Act 1886 applies to any house, shop or building which has
been damaged, or had its contents damaged, by any persons riotously and
tumultuously assembled together. The police are required to pay compensation to
any person who has suffered losses as a result, including those who have had
property stolen.

This would cover not only the owners of the businesses, but, for example, owners
of clothes which were damaged by looting of a dry cleaners.

RETAIL managing agent Brandspace has pledged to re-house small retailers
affected by the UK riots in its estate of shopping centres, free of charge.

Brandspace, which manages promotional and retail space in UK shopping centres,
took the decision after the company's staff suggested that smaller retailers who
are at risk of closure due to damage to their premises, could take complimentary
temporary retail space that the company manages.

Roy Wade, retail director at Brandspace, said: So many small businesses have
been affected by these riots and some premises have been completely devastated,
which is very sad to see.

Small retailers can't afford to lose out on even one or two day's trade, let
alone for weeks on end while repairs are made or insurance claims are settled.
This is where we know we can help those retailers most affected by the riots in
what will be a very difficult and stressful time for them.

We can accommodate a number of small retailers in some of the shopping centres
we manage.

There they will be able to get back up and running, and will benefit from high
footfall in secure, albeit temporary, locations. The space that we can make
available is of course limited, but we won't be asking anyone for rent.

The company has opened a dedicated response line for small retailers affected by
the riots 0800 116 4514.

SOME retailers already say that they are considering their options in locations
where trade has been hit by rioting.

The chairman of sports retailer JD Sports says the chain could even consider
moving out of areas where it has fallen victim to looting.

At least four JD Sports stores were reported to have been looted during the
riots which have plagued London since Saturday.

Another outlet in Nottingham was also attacked by thugs, though the raiders
failed to gain entry.

The riots have cost the firm an estimated  £10m, the company says.

Chairman Peter Cowgill said: It is very, very depressing.

It is a sorry state of affairs. and obviously we were one of the main targets.

Perhaps I am being naÃ¯ve, but I am disappointed that they have targeted our
stores because we are very much serving the local communities with exactly what
they want.

I'd expect some respect that we try to provide them with goods they want.

And he refused to rule our withdrawing from trouble hit areas, saying: That
would be a very reluctant move, but it is not beyond question.

He said that the company would have to wait for the social unrest to subside
before the process of repairing and refurbishing stores could begin.

We have very strong security and we are keeping in close contact with the
police, he added.

Without a doubt I will be seeking prosecutions.

And commenting on the police's effectiveness in combating the looting, he said:
The police have got a very difficult task.

In terms of prioritising, store protection hasn't been particularly high, but I
think that is a question of resources rather than desire.

I sincerely hope that it will now subside. If you think of the many millions of
pounds worth of damage that has occurred, you have to say, 'for what?'   other
slightly more warily than they previously were, but they are returning to work.
Manchester is definitely open for business. That view is echoed by Bruntwood,
the largest owner of office space in Manchester city centre. Chris Oglesby,
Bruntwood's chief executive, said that the rioting did little to disrupt its
clients. We have been working with our customers to get them up and running
again. In these tough trading times it is the last thing anyone needs, but at
the same time we applaud the actions of police officers and council officers
last night. Everyone has got stuck in to help which is the usual Manchester
response. As in the past when we have had a crisis like this and become world
news, the positive way the city reacts has always outweighed the initial
negative impact. Recently Manchester has been bucking the economic trend and we
all want this to continue in the future. Clearly however, there are some wider
social issues that need to be addressed. Andrew Stokes, chief executive of
Marketing Manchester, said: It's a little too soon to be evaluating how the
disruption could have effected the city's international reputation. However, we
are working closely with VisitBritain to monitor worldwide perceptions of recent
events. Clive Memmott, chief executive of the Greater Manchester Chamber of
Commerce, said that the most important thing was for people to keep the
situation in perspective. This is serious civil disorder and in modern times, it
is on an un-prescedented scale and it is an unwarranted attack on business, that
is what we have got. Firstly, we have got to get order back on the streets and
we also have got to remember that we have seen this in a number of major cities,
so there is a reputational damage to us as a nation, not just Manchester. This
is really unnecessary and unwarranted but it is also happening in London,
Birmingham, Bristol, Nottingham and we have to remember that. We are
experiencing tough economic conditions and this level of lawlessness is a clear
attack on business. We have seen some tough retail figures emerge recently and
that is because we know there is a huge squeeze going on at the moment, in terms
of rising costs, inflation and so on, and so it is already really tough going
out there. Businesses are already competing hard and taking hits on their
margins, so this couldn't come at a worse time. This is obviously serious civil
disorder on an unprecedented scale and an outright attack on business in the
city centre by a large group of people with nothing more than criminal
intentions on their mind. Events like this are a real setback as we deal with
tough economic conditions. The businesses and their employees that have been
effected will really feel like they have been battered physically, emotionally
and financially. In the short term this will undoubtedly have an impact on the
initial signs of recovery and growth that we have been seeing. The business
community will be appalled, as all right-thinking people will be, by what we
have seen but we need to get back on the front foot and, as we have done in the
past as a city and community, all work together to come out of this even
stronger and show the world the true spirit of this great city. It is essential
that we remain united and show absolutely no sympathy to this violent, thuggish,
selfish behaviour which affects our businesses, our community and our individual
citizens. Memmott agrees that it's too early to work out the exact cost of the
damage to Greater Manchester's business reputation. It is too soon to talk about
that but make no mistake, we are talking about millions upon millions of pounds
here, he said It is not just the looting and the cost of the damage, it is the
increased insurance premiums people will experience as a result of huge numbers
of claims going in. Then, there is the fact shops are having to close for long
periods of time, the fact footfall will be reduced because people won't know
whether it is safe to go out or not and the longer terms loss of morale from
consumers. This is something there has to be a serious discussion about because
we are in a period of austerity and the government is quite rightly trying to
deal with that. But when we face something like this, which has not been created
by business, something needs to be done to help companies that have been
targeted. We don't want to see some really healthy businesses going out of
business because of something like this that is out of their control. Angie
Robinson, chief executive of MIDAS, said: It will not be until the coming weeks
and months that we truly understand if this has had any kind of effect on inward
investment to Greater Manchester. However, from the way that Manchester's
business community has joined together, we can see that this is a region that
will not give in to the actions of a mindless few. We hope that current events
will be short-lived and we are confident that Manchester will continue to be an
attractive proposition for international businesses.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Continued from page 9

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             787 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 8, 2011 Monday

London riots: results of our crowdsourcing experiment

BYLINE: James Ballguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 680 words

ABSTRACT

What have you told us so far about the events in Tottenham and Enfield over the
weekend? Find out here

FULL TEXT

On Sunday, we  what they'd seen in Tottenham on Saturday night, and why they
thought the vigil held for Mark Duggan escalated into rioting and looting.

This work has been used to complement and feed into work done by our reporters
on the ground, but below we've shared a few of the more interesting responses
received so far.

We have made every effort to include only those responses which are consistent
with details gathered from reporting, but it should be noted that due to the
nature of our survey these cannot be taken as verified, and should be treated
with caution. Names have not been included.

A new survey reworked to include the events of last night will be live on the
site shortly.

One user who said he'd witnessed but not participated in Saturday's riots said
the riots were caused by:

Cultural divide, with anger towards the police. I don't believe much of this has
to do with Mark Duggan and is more about the "yob culture" in Tottenham.

Fireworks were set off and thrown in to crowds of on-lookers on the outskirts of
the riots

Others, who'd claimed they had taken part in protesting or riots, blamed police
tactics, with several respondent repeating the as-yet-unconfirmed rumours about
several police officers hitting a 16-year-old girl with riot shields.

The TSG tactics [are to blame]. The police need to learn that they are there to
serve us, not to kill us.

Several Tottenham residents were keen to seperate the actions of the looters,
and some of the rioters, from those who had earlier participated in the vigil
for Mark Duggan.

I didn't take part, they happened outside my window. I live in the centre of the
area affected

People travelled to the area specifically to cause trouble. [There was] nothing
more than fear. Fires. Distress.

Another respondent mentioned seeing looters leave the area:

Walking home from Tottenham Hale tube station at approx 22:00, many people were
seen walking by with hands full of looted goods. If they were heading for the
tube station, most of them were not from Tottenham, meaning a lot of people must
have informed them to come to Tottenham specifically for the riot/looting

The same respondent said the Mark Duggan protest proved a trigger for wider
social tensions which authorities had long failed to address.

Because the people of Tottenham feel as a community that they are trapped by the
poor socio-economic environment (this may or may not be true, and many find
another reason or excuse for why they are not working or in gangs).

An environment that is and was already increasingly violent (plenty of
statistics to prove this) and not well policed. Tottenham over several years has
become more violent and a lot of criminals go unpunished. Unfortunately the
"quiet vigil" was a perfect situation whereby those intent in crimal activity
could get together and create a riot with the consequent looting also likely to
have been both premeditated by the few and opportuned upon by the majority.

A peaceful, friendly and open community does not turn to violence and riots
overnight.

Tottenham has been slowly simmering over several years and whatever the
authorities and Mr Lammy have tried (if anything) clearly has not been of much
help.

We'll be continuing to look at and use responses from this and the second
crowdsourced survey, and share these in a later post. If you would like to add
your thoughts to the original post it's here, and please do leave any
reflections on the responses so far in the comments below.

More open data


World government data

·

Development and aid data

·

Can you do something with this data?

· Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our · Contact us at

· · · ·

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             788 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 28, 2001

Police snub GBP 1.1m bill;
'Riot' money falls foul of outdated law

BYLINE: Sinead Mcintyre

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 466 words


THE cost of last summer's street violence in Burnley has been put at more than
GBP 1million, it emerged yesterday.

But the town's police continue to resist demands they should foot the bill
because they never declared the petrol bombing, looting and arson as riots.

After disturbances in other Northern towns some forces did and, under the 1885
Riot Damages Act, they could be saddled with compensation claims .

The 116-year-old law makes police authorities responsible for compensation when
property is damaged 'by any persons riotously and tumultuously assembled
together', even if people are not insured.

Yesterday compensation claims were put at GBP 1.1million but, as reported in the
Daily Mail earlier this year, Lancashire Police expects to escape liability on
the grounds that the disturbances did not constitute a riot.

This means private insurance firms could have to pay out instead, but several
people who lost their homes and businesses will lose out because they were not
covered.

Nevertheless, the police authority is also demanding the Riot Act is changed
because it is 'archaic'.

Earlier this year the Mail told how a senior Lancashire police official was
surprised when other forces admitted they had riots on their hands because of
the implications.

Trouble erupted in Burnley on June 24 and carried on for three days. But a panel
which investigated the looting and destruction concluded that it amounted to '
disturbances' rather than riots.

A spokesman for Lancashire Police said: 'The authority is of the opinion that
the claims are not valid because we have never called what happened a riot. The
claims would, I imagine, be returned to private insurance companies to deal
with.' The chairman of Lancashire Police Authority, Coun Ruth Henig, is also
chair of the National Association of Police Authorities. She has written to Home
Office minister John Denham asking for the repeal of the Riot Damages Act in the
new Police Reform Bill. She said: 'The legislation is no longer justifiable.The
provisions of the act apply even when there has been no negligence on the part
of the police.

'One of the basic assumptions underpinning the act that riots are a failure to
provide adequate policing is no longer valid.' She said the only way Lancashire
Police could meet compensation claims was by putting the burden on taxpayers or
by cutting other services.

The cost of rioting in Oldham is already GBP 2 million and could also fall to
taxpayers if Greater Manchester Police has to foot the bill. It is to ask the
Home Office for help in paying for extra policing and damage claims.

The Riot (Damages) Act was invoked after rioting in several cities in 1981,
landing taxpayers with enormous bills.

s.mcintyre@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             789 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           February 20, 2001 Tuesday

Troops quell uprising in Brazil's jails

BYLINE: Reuters News Agency

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL


Brazil put down its biggest-yet prison uprising yesterday as more than 20,000
inmates at 29 jails in the state of Sao Paulo staged co-ordinated riots that
killed at least 16 people.

The organized uprising, which began on Sunday, included Carandiru, Latin
America's biggest prison - home to 8,000 inmates and the site of Brazil's
bloodiest uprising in 1992 when police killed 111 inmates during a failed
rebellion.

While prison uprisings are common across Brazil and rarely a week passes without
news of a riot, the co-ordination of Sunday's rebellion was previously unheard
of.

After the riot was quelled yesterday, a search for bodies and guns was carried
out. Troops in body armour and carrying rifles swept through Carandiru, in what
appeared to be a negotiated end to the bloody 25-hour siege.

They started a cell-by-cell search with prison guards but pulled out of the
decrepit compound before nightfall, saying they would only complete the search
today. Independent observers and riot police will stay overnight to prevent
further bloodshed.

"The rebellion is over, but we won't know with any certainty in what conditions
or how many deaths until we finish the search," said Renato Simoes, president of
the human-rights commission in the state assembly.

One of the dead was a prisoner, whose body was found in a garbage bin in
Carandiru with stab wounds and strangulation marks. Another two men were found
hanged inside the compound. Television showed three unarmed inmates shot by riot
police.

The riot was organized by a powerful prison gang called the First Commando of
the Capital, to protest against the transfer of its leaders from Carandiru to
other Sao Paulo prisons.

Human-rights activists say severe overcrowding and torture fuelled the riots and
helped the gang rally supporters.

"This shows how tenuous the control authorities have over prison conditions is,"
said James Cavallaro of the Justica Global human-rights group, calling the
co-ordinated uprising a "unique event" in the history of Brazilian prisons.
"This can repeat itself at any time."

Authorities regained control of 28 prisons by yesterday afternoon and finally
moved on Carandiru, the riot's last stand, after inmates freed thousands of
hostages.

Many wives and mothers did not want to leave, fearing riot troops would
retaliate once they were gone, but finally agreed to file out five at a time
after searches.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2001 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             790 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                              May 13, 2016 Friday

Daily Record staff receives 11 awards for journalistic excellence

BYLINE: Daily Record Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 385  words


The Daily Record's staff has received 11 awards from the Maryland Delaware
District of Columbia Press Association for excellence in journalism for 2015.

The awards were presented at the MDDC's annual editorial awards luncheon Friday
at the BWI Westin Hotel.

The Daily Record received a first place prize for a Website of General
Excellence, for its website, thedailyrecord.com.

The newspaper's staffers received six first-place prizes:

Daniel Leaderman, in business reporting, for "Maryland lobbying: Behind the
Access Coalition. " Maximilian Franz, for best photo gallery, for images from
the riots in Baltimore. Danny Jacobs, in local government reporting, for "Police
say injury claims from riots caused by lack of gear, poor tactics. " Bryan P.
Sears, in social media reporting, for his coverage of the State House on
Twitter. Dan Karlin, in Page One design, for his front page, "Troubled city
seeks answers. " Maximilian Franz, in general news photography, for "Troubled
city seeks answers. "

The newspaper's staffers received six second-place awards:

Lauren Kirkwood, in medical/science reporting, for "Nurses at law. " Adam Bednar
and Anamika Roy, for continuing coverage of struggling businesses after the
riots:  After the Baltimore riots, blessings and heartache | Gray case, protests
cast spotlight on Baltimore's image | Businesses close early, soldier on in face
of protests | Harmed by riots, small businesses now face a curfew | Businesses
face insurance questions after riot | As cancellations mount, the economic
ripples spread | Home sellers, Realtors fret about riot's impact on market |
Recovery program reaches more than 200 Baltimore businesses | Baltimore recovery
funds require businesses to pledge not to sue | Riots, crime present challenges
to Baltimore's economy | Lottery: Tickets stolen during riots may have been
cashed | Eutaw Street tailor suited up and stronger after riots | Baltimore's
Mary Harvin Center rises as symbol of recovery Adam Bednar, Bryan P. Sears and
Jason Whong, in best use of interactive media, for "Under Armour's audacious bet
on Port Covington. " Bryan P. Sears, in online commentary or blog, for the Eye
on Annapolis blog.

http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             791 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Haringey Independent

                                 April 10, 2012

Untold stories sought for children's riot-based play

BYLINE: Hermione Wright

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 356  words


Untold stories from children in the borough are being sought to provide the
backbone for a new play about the London riots.

The innovative play, called Sticks and Stones, will see the riots through the
eyes of young people in a bid to provide a response to the report from the Riots
, Communities and Victims Panel.

The play, which is due to run from September, aims to discover what young people
believe caused the August disorder and find out if they think it will happen
again.

The final post-riot report, which came from the now disbanded panel on March 28,
said that young people feel "demonised" and "blamed" for the riots.

Instead, the Polka Theatre group, which is based in Wimbledon, wants to provide
a chance for young people in Haringey and the rest of the UK to have their own
say on what happened.

Jonathan Lloyd, who is the artistic director for Polka Theatre, said: "In the
many debates and discussions following last summer's riots, the voices of
children and young people barely registered.

"We want to make them part of a bigger, national conversation about what
happened, and why."

The theatre group would like to hear what children would change about society to
prevent the riots from happening again.

Organisers are keen to discover what children believe adults do not understand
about being young.

They would also like to find out what makes each of the contributors happy and
angry, as well as what they would like to achieve in life.

Polka has commissioned playwright Ali Taylor, from Finsbury Park, to talk to
children and young people in London, Birmingham, Nottingham and Bristol about
their memories.

He said: "It is a chance to look at it in from the children's perspectives and
to hear the authentic voices of people living in Haringey.

"I am keen to hear from young people from Haringey and some of the areas that
are affected by the riots."

All memories will be used anonymously in the play, which is due to run at the
Polka Theatre in Wimbledon from September.

The play is aimed at nine to 13-year-olds, but children of any age can send in
their memories.

To contribute, send an email to sticksandstones@polkatheatre.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             792 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

Riots appeal judges to review BBC news coverage

BYLINE: Owen Bowcottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 444 words

ABSTRACT

Justices to look at TV broadcasts of riots before weighing up whether sentences
for 10 people were excessive

FULL TEXT

Three appeal court judges are to view BBC television news coverage of the summer
riots before they decide whether any of the sentences handed down were
excessive.

Their decision to review the broadcasts was announced as they began considering
the first cases to come before the court since the August disturbances.

Nine men and one woman are appealing against what their lawyers allege was the
"manifestly excessive" length of their custodial sentences. None are challenging
their convictions.

Only three of the appellants, Lorriane McGrane, Enrico Vanasco and Hassan
Koyuncu, appeared in court.

Two of the men, Jordan Blackshaw from Northwich and Perry Sutcliffe from
Warrington, had posted notices on Facebook inviting people to participate in
riots in their home towns. Both received four years in prison.

Gareth Roberts, representing Blackshaw, said the judge imposing the sentence
"had failed to consider the leading authorities in relation to riot sentences
[set] following the Bradford riots [in 2001] where sentences of four years were
given to those carrying crossbows and wielding scaffolding poles."

But the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, implied that the appeal court viewed
this summer's disturbances as more serious because they were far more
widespread.

"[The Bradford cases] are not guideline cases," he said. "The Bradford riots
were confined to Bradford. One of our concerns is that these were nationwide. At
the moment we are inclined to consider that we should take that into
consideration."

On reviewing television news, Judge explained that the judges said that they
were planning only to watch material that had already been broadcast. Because
they have not yet seen it, they would not be able to return any judgments on
Tuesday.

Among the ten cases before them is that of Stephen Carter who received 16 months
in prison for picking up a bag of clothes hidden in bushes during Manchester's
riots. The clothes had been looted from nearby shops.

He had committed the offence, his counsel, Helen Richardson said, within the
sight of police officers. Sentencing for offences of dishonesty were
"disproportionately enhanced," she told the court. "The premium added for
offences of dishonesty [as opposed to violence] was too high in the
circumstances."

Another appellant, David Beswick, is appealing against his sentence arguing that
it was too high. He had been caught with a TV in his car. He told the police at
the time that if his vehicle had not run out of petrol, it "might have been a
different story".

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             793 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

What happened in England? It's just a standard adjustment of the Riot Index

BYLINE: JOHN BARBER

SECTION: FOCUS; RIOTOLOGY / 101; Pg. F3

LENGTH: 900 words


I was shocked when some young acquaintances riding the bulls on Bay Street first
explained to me the theory of government that prevailed among their set, based
on something they called the Riot Index.

Too many riots were bad for business, they allowed, but so were too few - a sign
that government had become soft and inefficient. Prudent government squeezed
until the mob rebelled, then increased spending just enough to prevent extensive
property damage. Optimal social policy was a matter of dialling in the
appropriate frequency of riots.

That was a long time ago, and I can't say my shock lasted. In light of the
impotent moral outrage that has welled up in the wake of this week's events in
England, the cynicism of the Riot Index now seems downright refreshing. It is
surely more informative than the theories about bad parenting,
"over-entitlement" and psychotic consumerism that many Britons are advancing to
explain the disorder.

What the cynic notices is the rhetorical overload. The rioters are called feral
youth, sometimes feral scum, vermin, wild beasts or street jackals. Aligned with
that is an equally fierce denial of any political dimension to their violence.

"These are pure-and-simple criminals running wild tonight," senior Manchester
police official Garry Shewan said at the height of it. "They have nothing to
protest against. There has been no spark. This has been senseless on a scale I
have never witnessed before in my career."

It is more than understandable for respectable people to affirm their own values
in the face of such mayhem, and to stand solidly against its perpetrators,
perhaps even to the extent of reflexively condemning them as subhuman. But as
any cynical believer in the Riot Index will affirm, calling their activity
"senseless" misses the point disastrously.

The lack of an immediately apparent cause for the English riots does seem to set
them apart from similar, ongoing disturbances in Greece and Spain, which are
clearly intended as protests against government austerity. And so they have
invited all manner of speculative interpretation, providing pundits of every
stripe with ample proof of their own prejudices.

"Years of liberal dogma have spawned a generation of amoral, uneducated,
welfare-dependent, brutalized youngsters," the Daily Mail said in a typical
example, going on to say that liberalism "denies the underclass the discipline -
tough love - which alone might enable some of its members to escape from the
swamp of dependency in which they live."

Many leftists were no less dismayed. "I believe in the politics of the street,"
one Labour councillor from North London told The Guardian this week. "But to me
that means Tiananmen Square; not some kids smashing in HMV. This is bullshit."
Even avowed anarchists condemned the violence.

The Riot Index permits no adjustment for ideology or morality. It seeks no
causes and is indifferent to explanations. What it does do, however, is to
accept without question that liberal social policies quell social unrest.

According to its logic, the fact that Britons are now struggling to make sense
of good old-fashioned mob violence only proves that liberalism has gone too far
- that the mob has been a stranger too long. The conclusion may be distasteful,
but the underlying premise - that austerity causes riots and spending forestalls
them - is well supported by historical evidence.

In that respect, the most telling commentary on the English riots to emerge this
week was an econometric study by academics Jacopo Ponticelli and Hans-Joachim
Voth at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona.

Titled  Austerity and Anarchy: Budget Cuts and Social Unrest in Europe,
1919-2009," the study assembled masses of data on historic protests, riots,
assassinations and revolutions, and uncovered what the authors called "a clear
positive correlation between fiscal retrenchment and instability."

Economic downturns in themselves are not enough to spark riots, they found. The
tinder box is government fiscal retrenchment, and its relation to social
eruption is causal. "Once you cut expenditure by more than 2 per cent of GDP,
instability increases rapidly in all dimensions, and especially in terms of
riots and demonstrations," Prof. Voth wrote on his blog this week.

When former London mayor Ken Livingstone made the same point this week, linking
the riots to the Cameron government's sweeping and determined program of fiscal
austerity, he was attacked by Tory MP Patrick Mercer as "hugely crass."
Misplaced moralism trumped common sense.

Others say it is too soon to measure the effects of the ongoing British
austerity program, even though it was announced more than a year ago and key
measures - including a hefty increase in sales tax to 20 per cent - are well in
place. Last February, in an attempt to explain away the country's economic
stagnation by saying it was too soon to blame austerity, The Economist noted
that "the bulk of the spending cuts and further tax increases come in April."

Followed, right on schedule, by mob violence. The vehemence with which
government ministers deny the link only makes it more obvious. One of the most
incredible events in a week of dread, with police still reeling from the
assault, was Prime Minister David Cameron's reaffirmation of his commitment to
cut police budgets.

The Riot Index may be cynical, but at least it's not stupid.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             794 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Arts & Book Review

                               December 12, 2008
                                 First Edition

I depict a riot - and it's glorious;
THE WEEK IN CULTURE

BYLINE: TOM SUTCLIFFE

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 945 words


Looking at the coverage of the riots in Greece and reading careful newspaper
analyses of social discontent and the local tradition of street protest I felt
that one explanation of the continuing unrest hadn't been mentioned. And that is
that riots can be enjoyable. They're far more exciting for the young people who
take part than yet another dull day in the lecture hall or at a badly paid job.
What's more, riots are attractive, which is a subtly different thing. They have
a glamour about them - one that I'm sure it's hard to recognise if your car or
business has just gone up in smoke - but which those who take part in them
undoubtedly respond to. Riots, almost by definition, are events that suck people
towards them, converting individuals into a mass. And from Eisenstein onwards
they've also had a pretty fixed aesthetic - one you can see reflected in a lot
of the photographic coverage.

There are some paradoxes in what you might call the poetics of protest. The
first is that an event that necessarily requires hundreds of people to act in
concert is quite often represented by an image of a single figure. Every press
photographer understands the kind of shots the picture desk wants to get.
There's the portrait-format riot, which is often of a lone protester, body
canted as he or she releases a petrol bomb or stray tear-gas canister back at
the enemy lines. The pose is sculptural, an active controposto, which lifts one
foot and extends the arms. Think of the bowling action of Bacchus in Titian's
Bacchus and Ariadne, one arm following through, the other stretched to balance
his weight. And often this shape will be crisply silhouetted against a backdrop
of flame, or drifting smoke. If the desk wants to run with a landscape format
there's a variation - two or three of the bolder protesters seen from behind
facing off against a phalanx of masked and helmeted riot police.

The second paradox is that an event defined by disorder is actually often
carefully choreographed. The police help enormously in this regard, drilling
their specialists to form a thumping, well-rehearsed chorus line, advancing line
abreast down some cobble-strewn avenue. Against that crisp fixed point the
protesters swirl like starlings - suddenly retreating from some assault or
surging back to break against the line. In Eisenstein's films - part of the
cultural inheritance of many rioters, whether they've seen them or not - we're
almost always with the rioters, and the simple practicalities of news-gathering
mean that's often true of real riots, too. They are overwhelmingly recorded from
a rioter's perspective - so that the police are seen as a faceless implacable
mass and rioters as humanly variegated.

The graphic artists of the Paris evenements of 1968 (the best-designed upheaval
ever) immediately understood what a gift the gas mask was, helpfully erasing the
individuality of the agents of the state. In a riot, the police are the cyborgs
and the rioter, isolated or in a group, is Doctor Who - all wild exuberant
expression in contrast to the clones arrayed against him. Again, this isn't
necessarily true to the reality of riots, when policemen may be vulnerable and
fearful too. But it's how they tend to play out in our heads.

The artist Banksy - drawn to riot police as Degas was drawn to dancers - once
painted a mural called The Mild, Mild, West in which a lone teddy bear was shown
hurling a petrol bomb at a group of policemen - an image that hinted at the way
our sympathies are often tweaked in one direction, away from the uniform and
towards the cherishably individual. Add in smoke effects and the odd gout of
flame (thrilling the inner arsonist in even the most law-abiding) and you have a
very seductive bit of street theatre. It's not really surprising that audience
participation is so popular.

I went to Amazonia last week - this year's Christmas show at London's Young Vic.
The theatre has earned a reputation for producing seasonal treats that children
love and parents can bear - but I'm not sure it has pulled it off this year.
Amazonia is confused and earnest - and so pious about the rainforest that you
find yourself stirred to thoughts about chainsaws. I was reminded of the
possibly apocryphal story about Pia Zadora's performance in a dramatised version
of the Anne Frank story, which infuriated one theatregoer so much that when the
Nazis appeared at the front door he shouted, "She's in the attic!". The interval
in Amazonia is announced by the apocalyptic sound effect of falling timber and
ecological destruction - and it wasn't easy not to give a little cheer at the
sound of something finally happening.

t.sutcliffe@independent.co.uk

Christmas for less

Tate Britain unveiled its Christmas tree this week - the artist currently known
as Bob and Roberta Smith delivering a credit-crunch affair made from the Tate's
waste packing material. In what one takes to be a physical pun, a ring of bikes
around the base of the tree can be pedalled by visitors to light it up.
Recycling, geddit? It looks scrappily engaging, but for me it was cast into the
shade by a real pine, about a 20th the size of the Tate's, at the Science Museum
- where the vestibule for the museum's Japan Car exhibition contains a small
grove of bonsai trees. They're making some point about the meticulous aesthetics
of Japanese design, but are breathtaking in their own right - a masterfully
artificial tribute to natural beauty. The website suggests visitors should set
aside an hour for the show. I would suggest you spend 40 minutes in the
ante-room and 10 minutes on the rest. And if you don't want to fork out for a
ticket you can just peek from the entrance.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TR


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             795 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

'Sidelined, punished & not promoted...';
Decade After Destruction

BYLINE: Team DNA

LENGTH: 571  words


During the riots, the situation remained near normal with negligible or no
violence in Surat city, Rajkot city, Jamnagar, Valsad and Surendranagar
districts, mainly due to effective law enforcement by the in-charge police
officers. Predictably, all these officers got shabby treatment from the state
government thereafter.

A number of IPS officers, who refused to toe the government line during the 2002
post-Godhra riots, fell out of favour with the Narendra Modi government and had
to face harassment.

These officers were transferred to insignificant posts, slapped with
disciplinary proceedings on baseless charges, and denied promotions by the state
government.

One such officer is RB Sreekumar, an IPS officer of 1971 batch. The former ADGP
(intelligence) was transferred to the insignificant post of ADGP (police
reforms) in September 2002, a few months after the riots erupted. His efforts to
expose the Modi administration&apos;s failures during and after the  riots also
led to him being superseded for promotion to the post of DGP.

Another upright officer, who had to, and is still facing harassment at the hands
of the government, is Rahul Sharma. Sharma, Bhavnagar SP when riots erupted, was
transferred as DCP (control room) in March 2002. His fault: He had prevented
attack on a madrassa and arrested 21 persons of Sangh Parivar for the riots.
Sharma also produced mobile phone records of top police officials, politicians
and ministers at the time of riots. A departmental inquiry is ongoing against
Sharma for providing the phone records to Nanavati Commission without the state
government&apos;s permission.

1993-batch IPS officer Neeraja Gotru was forced to go on CBI deputation in 2004
after she ordered arrest of a PSI who had burnt dead bodies of 13 Muslim riot
victims in Kalol. This was after she was appointed special investigating officer
to reopen investigations in some riot-related cases in late 2003, and she
successfully reopened such cases in Dahod and Panchmahals.

VK Gupta, who as Surat police commissioner in 2002 ensured that there were no
riots in the city, went on central deputation the same year. This was
Gupta&apos;s last posting in the state.

Satish Verma, Range DIG of Bhuj, was transferred to SRP Training Chowky,
Junagadh, in March 2005, after he ordered arrest of a BJP MLA from Banaskantha
for his involvement in murder of two Muslim boys during the 2002 violence. He
had carried out the arrest after fresh investigation entrusted to him as part of
review of about 2,000 riot-related cases by the Supreme Court.

Himanshu Bhatt, posted as Banaskantha SP, was transferred to Intelligence Bureau
at Gandhinagar in March 2002. Bhatt had initiated action against a PSI who had
assisted a rioting mob. Interestingly, the PSI was reinstated from suspension
and resumed his duties at the same police station the next day.

AK Surolia, in charge of Ahmedabad crime branch during the 2002 violence, was
removed from the post and transferred after he spoke against breakdown of
constitutional machinery at a meeting in 2002.

Likewise, Vivek Srivastava, posted as Kutch SP during riots, was transferred as
DCP (prohibition & excise) in March 2002. Srivastava had arrested a Home Guard
commandant with VHP links for his participation in antiminority riots.

Former Bharuch SP, MD Antani, was transferred to Narmada in March 2002 after he
had taken action against some BJP/VHP supporters creating trouble.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             796 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                            September 9, 2011 Friday

Making Riots History

BYLINE: Michael Kelly

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1174 words


It was 20 years ago today that the Tyneside riots began on the Meadow Well
estate in North Shields, later spreading to the west end of Newcastle. As riots
hit other parts of the country, MIKE KELLY looks back at the events of 1991 and
asks why the region escaped the mass disorder this year

LATE on September 6, 1991, a stolen high performance car careered down the Coast
Road reaching speeds of 125mph.

Inside were two car thieves, Colin Atkins, 21, and Dale Robson, 17, with the
police  in hot pursuit. What happened next   or rather what was believed to have
happened next   sparked a riot which  saw the Meadow Well estate in North
Shields turned into a no-go area and  the local community ripped apart.  As it
left the Coast Road, the driver of the stolen vehicle lost control, smashed into
a lamppost and burst into flames. The two men inside were burned to death.

When news of the tragedy reached the Meadow Well, the story soon spread that
they had been forced off the road by the police car pursuing them. The police
have always claimed they were travelling half a mile behind.

Fast forward 20 years to Tottenham in London. Mark Duggan, 29, a suspected
criminal is stopped by police while travelling in a taxi and is shot twice.
Pronounced dead at the scene, it was initially claimed he had fired first.

Family and friends staged a peaceful march to the local police station for
answers, but when none were forthcoming tensions rose and riots erupted. It was
later revealed Mr Duggan had not fired at  police.

As writer and broadcaster Beatrix Campbell, who wrote an acclaimed book about
the 1991 riots, said: "The trigger of the riots on Tyneside was incredibly
similar to  Tottenham. The police were swift to deny they had been inappropriate
or hostile in their treatment."

In 1991, relations between the police and sections of the Meadow Well were
strained to breaking point. By the force's own admission, they had "lost
control" of it. In the weeks leading up to the riots there were frequent arson
attacks and disorder.

A local police officer had his car trashed and his home attacked, showing the
contempt for authority which was the reason why Northumbria police's version of
events surrounding the Coast Road crash was not believed.

Within hours of the crash, a furious mob of local residents went on the
rampage, looting shops and setting fire to buildings, including a youth centre,
a fish and chip shop and an electricity sub-station, causing millions of  pounds
worth of damage. Police and fire crews who attended the scene were pelted with
bricks. It was estimated that, at its height, 400 people were involved. Some 37
people were arrested, including one who was jailed for four-and-a-half years.

The protests spread to the west end of Newcastle, the Armstrong Road Post Office
in Scotswood being burned to the ground in a further three nights of rioting.

In the wake of the riots on Tyneside, as well as those in Cardiff and Oxford
which occurred in the same year, Ms Campbell headed to the affected areas to
find out why they had happened and "interviewed everybody I could get my hands
on". They ranged from the victims of the riots, the rioters themselves, police,
social services and local politicians.

The result was Goliath, Britain's Dangerous Places, which argued that
unemployment produced the riots in British cities in 1991 not as a response to
poverty, but because it stranded man in the domestic world traditionally
associated with women.

Ms Campbell argued that young men brought up in an age of "macho propaganda"
took over the streets because they had nothing else to do. Ram raiding and
joyriding was part inspired by the films of the time like Lethal Weapon. In the
age of the camcorder, joyriders on Oxford's Blackbird Leys estate were able to
emulate their cinema heroes, and achieve celebrity status by filming each other
as they performed hand brake turns in high-performance stolen cars.

Ms Campbell's book was generally well received, particularly her accounts of the
people caught up in the riots, although there were criticisms that as a feminist
she had a tendency to stereotype men and romanticise the world of women.

It's a theme she returns to today. "Shopkeepers, credit unions, community
organisations, community buildings were very vulnerable to attack. People known
to be community activists, giving their lives to the community services, making
life liveable, in the main are mothers. What these young men were doing was
being engaged in forms of crime, providing them with a context for marking their
masculinity."

When friends of Mr Atkins and Mr Robson were interviewed after their death, they
were angered by their description as "joyriders", insisting they were actually
"car thieves".

Ms Campbell said: "They thought they had a business and that business was
stealing cars and selling them. In the absence of a legal living, they were
making an illegal living, so in describing them as car thieves and not joyriders
they were insisting what they were doing was not stupid."

She said her view was reinforced later when she did work with prisoners as a
writer-in-residence. "There were men who were locked up for terribly violent
offences I worked very closely with. They were very clear about what they were
doing, being soldiers, part of a gang that took the power.

"It gives them a modicum of economic power because they rob and burgle. They
make their mark."

Some saw Ms Campbell as a little mad for seeing the riots purely in feminist
terms, but the vast majority of people prosecuted in the 1991 riots were male
and white, while the person who received an MBE for her work in reinventing
Meadow Well was female: Carole Bell.

The thought of why the riots this summer didn't extend to the North East has
crossed many people's minds. At a time of economic recession, with unemployment
rising   particularly youth unemployment   and, as ever, the North East perhaps
the most  hard-hit region in the country, the region had this potential catalyst
in common with those areas which did take to the streets.

Political expert Dr Martin Farr of Newcastle University said: "I suppose it
fundamentally reflects that the riots this year   as well as the riots in 1981
(which also didn't affect the North East)   had a racial trigger. There was a
racial tension to provoke it which went beyond the issue of oppressive policing.

"Newcastle is not as ethnically diverse as places like Birmingham, Manchester
and London   so I suspect this means it was less prone to the riots. Leeds was
another city which was unaffected."

While economic deprivation, particularly with the Government's "austerity cuts",
could have provided a trigger, Dr Farr pointed out that over the last six months
there had been a number of demonstrations in which people vented their anger and
frustration.

Economic deprivation still exists in both the Meadow Well and Newcastle's West
End, but the communities have worked to help create a new future for themselves.

The trigger of the riots on Tyneside was incredibly similar to  Tottenham

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             797 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            December 2, 2013 Monday

If Narendra Modi becomes PM, riots may follow: Sheila Dikshit

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 346 words


NEW DELHI: Chief minister Sheila Dikshit took her party's anti-Modi rhetoric to
a new height on Saturday when she warned the people at a rally in Ballimaran
that if the Gujarat CM became Prime Minister, there was a possibility of riots
breaking out. Union minister Kapil Sibal insinuated further and said wherever
Modi went, riots invariably followed.

These barbs came just an hour-and-a-half after Modi's own rally near Red Fort
where he spared no opportunity to attack Congress. "Aur woh jo hain Narendra
Modi ... agar woh satta mein aa gaye to aisa na ho ki yahaan dange ho jayein (If
Narendra Modi comes to power, it is possible that you may see riots)," Dikshit
told the crowd.

Sibal simply lashed out: "Modi jahaan jatey hain wahaan riot ho jata hai.
Gujarat mein Godhra aur UP mein gaye toh phir riot ho gaya (Wherever Modi goes
there is a riot. Godhra happened in Gujarat and when he went to UP there was a
riot). He wants to be PM. BJP has only one hero, Modi, and in the court of this
hero, all decisions are his. He makes us all stand in that court and passes
verdict where he gives himself 100 and everyone else zero. I want to ask where
the hero was in 2002 during Godhra riots?"

He went onto warn people to make the right choice. "If you vote for the BJP led
by Modi then you may end up in a situation that led to 1947. If you vote for
Congress then you can hope for a secular, independent India that emerged after
Partition. Don't waste your votes on AAP. They have ridden into politics using
the Anna Hazare movement. They are not going to provide a stable government,"
Sibal added.

Dikshit said that BJP was misleading people and had no vision for Delhi. To
drive home her point, she gave the example of BJP's campaign on onion prices.
She said even though onion prices have come down to Rs 25 per kilo, BJP is still
accusing Congress of mismanaging the crisis.

What was unmistakable, however, was the over emphasis on Modi that reflected a
growing worry within Congress that Modi wave might sweep the city's voters away
with it.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             798 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday

China: Hu Jintao visits Urumqi, riot suspects to be tried, Wang Lequan to resign

LENGTH: 1361 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper Ming Pao website on 25 August

["Special Article" by Ming Pao reporter: "Hu Jintao Visits Xinjiang for the
First Time After the Riots To Express Appreciation for the Soldiers and Officers
and Visit Uighur Families; Ururmqi Is on High Alert"]

Ming Pao special dispatch: State President Hu Jintao went to inspect Xinjiang a
few days ago and this was his first visit to Xinjiang after the "5 July" riots
occurred there. A source said that Hu Jintao's inspection of Xinjiang indicated
that the local situation there had completely been stable, the top level of the
Central Committee had reached consensus in their examination on the Xinjiang
issue under the new situation, and a series of new measures would be taken to
support Xinjiang in the future.

According to a report by the "China Daily" in English, the trials of cases
relating to the "5 July" incident will begin at the Urumqi Intermediate People's
Court this week and it is expected that 200 people will be prosecuted.

According to information obtained, Hu Jintao arrived in Xinjiang last Saturday
(22 August) and his itinerary mainly included activities in Urumqi, the capital
of Xinjiang: attending, and delivering an important speech at, a meeting of
party and government officials of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region,
expressing appreciation for public security personnel and soldiers and officers
of the Armed Police Corps who quieted down the riots, consoling those injured in
the riots, and might also visit the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps,
Xinjiang University and Uighur families. The information continued to say that
recently, a large number of public security personnel and armed policemen had
stationed in the urban areas of Urumqi and had been patrolling day and night and
that the degree of tension was not lower than in the early stage of the "5 July"
riots. It was generally thought that heightening alert was related to Hu
Jintao's inspection on Xinjiang.

According to a report by "China Daily," Xinjiang police disclosed earlier that
the arrest of 83 people involved in the riots had been approved and the arrested
suspects had been charged with crimes of damaging public property, organizing
and instigating acts of beating people, intentional injury, looting, arson,
vandalizing public transport, and organizing and instigating acts of disrupting
the public order and traffic. According to police information, relevant trials
will cause a large number of people of the Uighur and Han ethnic groups to get
together and alert has been comprehensively heightened because of this.

Trials of Riot Cases Will Begin in One or Two Days, Judges Have Been Transferred
From Other Places

It has been learned that among the suspects to be tried soon, a man of the Han
ethnic group has aroused strong sympathy of the local Han communities. Some Han
residents in Urumqi have recently launched a signature campaign, demanding the
authorities absolve the suspect and saying that the man had taken part in
beating, smashing, looting and burning activities because he was roused to
righteous indignation by the infringement upon the lives and property of the Han
people. Some local netizens have also launched a fundraising campaign to donate
money for the family of this Han suspect. Under such tense situation, the trial
day may be postponed.

According to a report by "China Daily," the Xinjiang authorities have
transferred several dozen judges from other parts of the autonomous region to
Urumqi to take part in the trials of cases relating to the "5 July" incident and
have given them legal and policy training. The judges have been divided into
several groups, with three to seven judges in each group. Rulings will be made
according to the principle that the minority is subordinate to the majority. The
authorities have also designated 170 Uighur lawyers and 20 Han lawyers to defend
the suspects. An official of the Urumqi Procuratorate said that the overwhelming
majority of the suspects were arrested in Urumqi and Kashi and the police has
collected over 3,300 items of material evidence to be submitted to the court,
including bloodstained bricks and clubs, 91 video footage discs and 2,169
photos.

According to data provided by the Xinjiang police, at present, 718 people have
been arrested in Xinjiang because of the riots; however, prior to this, the
authorities said the number of people detained exceeded 1,500 and the local
police and procuratorate have not disclosed the ethnic groups to which the
detained or the officially arrested belong.

Reshuffle of Xinjiang Leaders Is Probable, the Opportunity May Be Used for
Observing Candidates

According to information disclosed, State President Hu Jintao's inspection on
Xinjiang has implied that the "5 July" incident has come to the end of a stage.
Although the central ethnic regional autonomy policy will not change, protection
for the culture of the ethnic minorities will not change, and the economic
policy of tilting towards areas inhabited by the ethnic minorities will not
change, accountability for the riots in Xinjiang this time will have to be
fixed. The possibility for Hu Jintao to observe candidates for the new leading
group during his visit is not ruled out.

Overlooking Signs of Riots, Local Leaders "Lower Their Guard and Become
Careless"

It has been disclosed that the riots occurred in Urumqi this time were not
unexpected. Two weeks before the riots, a conflict between the Uighur and Han
ethnic groups occurred in Shaoguan City, Guangdong Province. Before the riots
broke out, the authorities had also received an early warning notice. Street
barricades of piled up stones had even been built in many parts of Urumqi and
signs of serious riots were very clear. Therefore, it can be said that principal
Xinjiang leaders at least have committed the mistake of having "lowered their
guard and become careless."

After the riots occurred, news about unusual personnel changes of Xinjiang's
leadership has spread far and wide. It has been generally believed that Wang
Lequan, who has been the secretary of the CCP Committee of the Xinjiang
Autonomous Region for as long as 15 years and who is now 64 years old, will
resign. The

popular candidates to be his successor are Nie Weiguo, incumbent regional deputy
secretary, and Zhang Qingli, incumbent secretary of the CCP Committee of the
Tibet Autonomous Region, who once worked in Xinjiang.

The 57-year-old Nie Weiguo was born in Chongqing. In 2005, he was transferred
from his post as the deputy secretary of the Chongqing Municipal CCP Committee
to the posts as deputy secretary of the CCP

Committee of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region and concurrently secretary and
political commissar of the CCP Committee of the Xinjiang Production and
Construction Corps. He was also elected member of the 17th CCP Central Committee
and is the second highest-ranking Han official in Xinjiang. His succession to
the post as the secretary can ensure continuity of relevant central policies for
Xinjiang.

The 58-year-old Zhang Qingli, secretary of the CCP Committee of the Tibet
Autonomous Region, once took up posts at the Central Committee of the Communist
Youth League and in Shandong Province and Gansu Province. From 1999 to 2005, he
took up the posts as deputy secretary of the Xinjiang party committee and then
as executive vice-chairman of the region.

Besides, it has been said that high-ranking officials to be transferred to
Xinjiang also include 56-year-old Shandong Governor Jiang Daming and 54-year-old
China National Petroleum Corporation Chairman Jiang Jiemin. Like Wang Lequan,
both of them were born in Shandong Province and they can communicate more easily
with the large number of local cadres with a Shandong origin. Besides, Jiang
Jiemin has both the experience as a deputy secretary and deputy governor of
Qinghai Province, a province also belonging to the western region, and the
background of oil energy, which is more conducive to the administration of
Xinjiang, an important energy base and the starting point of the project to
transmit natural gas from the west to the east.

Source: Ming Pao website, Hong Kong, in Chinese 25 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             799 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 28, 2006 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

RIOT JAIL LAGS WANT GBP 1M 'STRESS' COMPO;
Human rights 'rip-off'

BYLINE: by CAMERON MILLAR

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 299 words


LAGS caught in a jail riot are suing for more than GBP 1million over their
"stress."

Prison officers involved in the same riot are also demanding a big payday after
some of them were attacked.

The revolt which erupted over a move to swap hot dinners for sandwiches at
Lincoln Prison caused GBP 3m worth of damage.

Prisoners seized the jail for more than eight hours, destroying cells, tearing
up expensive fittings and attacking other inmates with legs torn from tables and
beds.

The building was rocked by two explosions and part of the crowded Victorian jail
was set ablaze.

Two hundred police were scrambled to the scene and the Army was reported to be
on stand-by.

But in their group legal action, bleating lags are demanding Government cash for
"physical and psychological injuries" sustained because they claim the jail's
security was not up to scratch.

The claimants, believed to include sex offenders, say they did not start the
riot, but became victims when other inmates grabbed keys and launched an attack
on the vulnerable prisoners' wing.

The case will probe whether keys and locks installed at the time of the riot in
October 2002 were tough enough. Solicitor for the prisoners Stephen Wilson said:
"They were victims in a riot.

They were no way involved in the starting of this.

"The claim is against the Prison Service for not doing more to prevent the riot
or to protect them when the riot started."

But Blair Gibbs, spokesman for the Taxpayers' Alliance, said: "Cases like this
prove that the compensation culture in British prisons is clearly out of
control.

"The Government is allowing criminals to use human rights laws to rip off the
taxpayer."

A spokesman for the Home Office said: "We can confirm that we are looking into
these claims but it would be inappropriate to comment further."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACTION STATIONS: Troubled Lincoln jail and police in riot gear waiting
to go into the prison in 2002

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved


                             800 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    June 2, 1992, TUESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

DEATHS TIED TO RIOTING ARE INFLATED 25 PERCENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 462 words


LOS ANGELES - Investigations of the 60 deaths attributed to the Los Angeles
riots show that one-fourth of them were unrelated to the unrest.  The death of a
man who fell asleep while smoking in bed was included in the coroner's tally of
riot fatalities. So were the killings of a man who was beaten in a dispute over
a few dollars worth of recyclable cans and another who was shot during a drug
deal.  But all three deaths - and 12 others listed in the coroner's official
tally - had no connection to the unrest, detectives told The Los Angeles Times.
A 25 percent reduction in the death toll - from 60 down to 45 - would mean that
the recent riots remain the most deadly U.S. disturbances in 75 years. A civil
disturbance in East St. Louis in 1917 killed 48.  The death total appears to
have been inflated in part because the coroner's office categorized as ''riot
-related'' most homicides that occurred April 29 through May 4 in Los Angeles
County.  ''It's easy to say . . . 'Cases on your list, Mr. Coroner, were not
riot-related,' '' said Scott Carrier, a coroner's spokesman. ''At the time, a
lot was going on, and we were doing the best we could.'' The chief coroner's
spokesman, Bob Dambacher, said the office does not plan to lower the numbers at
this time. ''Unless we find some more charred bodies in some of the buildings
that haven't been cleaned, I wouldn't think it (the total) is going to change at
all,'' he said. ''I'm pretty well set on that figure of 60.'' Anthony Platt, a
professor at California State University at Sacramento and an expert on civil
disorders, said it was not surprising that the number of riot-related deaths
would drop. It is commonplace for initial death tolls in riots and natural
disasters to be on the high side, he said. ''In emergency situations, there is a
lot of exaggeration that goes on in reporting, in perception, in language that
is used. . . . Complexity gets lost,'' Platt said.  In the days since the riots,
officials also have made sharp reductions in their estimates of the number of
fires and arrests.  In a related development, a prosecutor said Monday that
officers who made mass arrests of looters during the riots were having trouble
identifying suspects in court and that almost 28 percent of the cases had been
dismissed.  ''Yes, there are people who were out there looting who were released
because the system didn't track them properly,'' said John Lynch, head of the
district attorney's Central Trial Division. ''The main problem seems to be
identifying the body in the courtroom as the person who was arrested during the
riots.'' Of 820 cases that have completed preliminary hearings, 227 were
dismissed, 547 will go to trial and 46 defendants changed their pleas to guilty,
Lynch said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             801 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                January 31, 2014

'84 riots: Sikh groups ask Rahul to name Congmen

LENGTH: 319  words


New Delhi: Several Sikh groups on Thursday staged a protest outside the Congress
headquarters at 24, Akbar Road demanding Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi
reveal names of party members involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.



In a recent interview with a TV channel, Gandhi had said that "some Congress men
were probably involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and they have been punished
for it". The protesters shouted anti- Congress slogans and held up black flags
and placards, one of which read, "CBI should question Rahul Gandhi for Congress
involvement in 1984 riots".

"We want justice. We want to know who were those people who were involved in the
riots," said one of the protesters. Asked about Delhi government's decision to
set up a Special Investigation Team to probe the riots cases, he said, "We have
been demanding an SIT for the past 25 years. If Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal
is really with us, we welcome him, but if he is doing politics, we would like to
request him not to do so".

The 200-odd demonstrators marched towards the Congress headquarters and managed
to break the first barricade. They were stopped, however, at the second
barricade by police. Many of them were detained and taken to Tughlaq Road police
station from where they were later released.

In the interview, Gandhi had insisted that the Congress government in 1984 "was
not aiding and abetting the riots" but had tried to stop the violence.

Congress leaders Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar are facing allegations of
involvement in the riots which occurred in the aftermath of former Prime
Minister Indira Gandhi's assassination on October 31, 1984. So far, Delhi Police
and CBI have held probes into the riots.

Meanwhile, in Ludhiana, the youth wing of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) and a
students organisation also held a protest demanding Rahul Gandhi disclose the
identity of the Congress leaders involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             802 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   May 6, 1992, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

LA CALLED A POLITICAL MINEFIELD EXPERTS FIND EFFECTS OF RIOT HARD TO GAUGE

BYLINE: Bill Lambrecht Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: WAR PAGE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 814 words


WASHINGTON (REST) THE RIOTS IN Los Angeles left more minefields than
opportunities for Gov.  Bill Clinton of Arkansas and perhaps other presidential
candidates.  Many political experts believe that President George Bush and
Republicans stand to benefit in November from fears stirred by rioting after
four white Los Angeles police officers were acquitted last week in the beating
of a black motorist, Rodney King.  But too many remaining uncertainties make the
ultimate political effects of the riot hard to predict. The election is about
six months away, time for the riots to fade in the minds of many voters.  The
growing likelihood of Ross Perot's entering the race as an independent makes it
less certain who among the three candidates can capitalize on issues related to
the riots.  And, in the short term, a poll shows Bush slipping since the riots,
suggesting something different from the initial analysis of political experts.
The poll, published this week by the Times Mirror Co., showed Bush with 33
percent, followed by Perot and Clinton, the likely Democratic nominee, with 30
percent each.  ''There has been a growing concern by the public that things are
just not working, and this is more evidence that feeds that concern,'' observed
A.  James Reichley of Washington, a scholar and the author of several books on
American politics.  Nonetheless, many strategists see the riots as a liability
for Democrats.  For one thing, the trend of low turnout among blacks is likely
to worsen. And Clinton shows little sign of being able to cash in from the riots
other than rhetorically. The lesson from Los Angeles about ongoing racial
division blends with one of Clinton's favorite campaign themes - a call for
healing.  But when it comes to taking sides or recommending specific plans,
Clinton could have a problem, experts said.  Clinton and the Democratic Party
need to lure lower-income voters and so-called Reagan Democrats back to the
fold. And many of those people do not favor committing new federal money for
programs to tackle urban problems.  By the same token, Clinton also must work to
solidify his standing among liberals and to improve turnout among black voters
in November.  ''I think there will be a lot of pressure on Bill Clinton to say
and do things that could create unhappiness among some of the people he needs to
have voting for him in the fall,'' said Earl Black, a political scientist at the
University of South Carolina.  Black summed up why he thinks the riots could
work in Bush's favor in the South, which is essential if Republicans are to keep
their hold on the electoral college.  ''The images of individuals being randomly
and violently set upon are the images that will be very vivid in the minds of
Southern white voters,'' said Black, an author of books on Southern politics.
''It's my hunch that it will turn out to be a Republican plus, in crass
political terms.'' Todd Domke, a Republican consultant from Boston, agreed. ''I
think that most people in the aftermath of the riots are more concerned about
order than about Rodney King or about the liberal proposition that society is to
blame for the riots,'' Domke said.  Domke pointed to a potential problem for
Clinton if he comes off as indecisive in the months ahead. ''Instead of 'Slick
Willie,' it will be 'Wishy-Washy Willie,' '' Domke remarked.  So far, Clinton
seems to be avoiding the pitfalls as he campaigns for California's primary June
2. In a visit to California this week, he avoided statements that might be
viewed as inflammatory.  ''He's been very careful,'' observed Larry J. Sabato, a
political scientist at the University of Virginia. ''There are a lot of people
who have wanted him to scream at the top of his lungs about what has happened,
but that would have been political suicide.'' Joe Trippi, a consultant for
former Gov. Jerry Brown of California, says he sees little potential for the
Democrats to capitalize on the riots.  ''Republicans spent millions of dollars
trying to divide the country in 1988 with Willie Horton and other ads, and it
worked,'' Trippi said. ''In a lot of ways, they just got the same thing for
free.'' But Trippi, who makes political ads, said he thought that a candidate
who used footage of the riots in commercials this year ''would open themselves
up to the charge of using tragedy for political gain.'' Perot initially was
critical of Bush for failing to act swiftly when the riots began. Although he
has not said specifically what he might have done to prevent the mob action, he
is viewed by some strategists as a potential beneficiary.  ''Perot has an appeal
to working Americans, to Reagan Democrats and others who respond to a
law-and-order message,'' said Eddie Mahe, a consultant for Republican
candidates.  William H. Freivogel of the Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau
contributed information to this article.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO by Reuters...Democratic presidential hopeful Bill Clinton
getting a tour of burned areas of Los Angeles earlier this week. With him is
Rep.  Maxine Waters, D-Calif...

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             803 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Today's Muslim Peshawar

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

Police learn techniques to fight back riots

LENGTH: 391  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


After a botched raid at the Minhajul Quran Secretariat on June 17, the capital
city police authorities have initiated an anti-riot police unit where 210
constables are being trained in multiple anti-riot skills.

The six-week course, initiated at Qila Gujjar Singh Police Lines last week, has
three parts -- PT parade, lectures on anti-riot techniques and psychology and
anti-riot demonstrations.

Officials told media the training modules had been designed by Superintendent of
Police (SP) Omer Saeed with the help of Pakistan Army, Elite Police and Chuhng
Police Training College.

They said a tear-gas cadre would learn how to use the gas to achieve desired
results and lessen damages.

Officials added trainees would also be taught about the usage of mega phones,
shields and fire rubber-bullets and how to strike batons on protesters besides
dealing with injured people and provide them first-aid.

Of the 210 constables, aged between 25 and 35, 120 have been taken from Police
Lines and 90 others from police stations. The batch has been divided into seven
platoons and the trained officials would remain in their unit for one year. They
said 190 constables would also get training at a later stage and help
authorities to spare 40 anti-riot police reserves for future needs.

A police source said the Model Town anti-encroachment operation on June 17 and
ensuing casualties and injuries of Pakistan Awami Tehrik protesters pushed
police authorities to raise such an independent cadre.

He said a majority of field police officers -- from station house officers to
divisional SPs -- lacked anti-riot policing skills. He said in the Model Town
clash police officers lacked an independent command, mutual coordination and
basic techniques of anti-riot.

Deputy Inspector General Dr Haider Ashraf said the establishment of the
specialised cadre as it was observed that in any law and order situation
policemen were unable to handle protesters mainly owing to the lack of training
and the absence of a specialised unit.

He said officials from police stations, police lines and reserves were usually
called out to handle law and order situations with anti-riot gears like batons,
anti-riot jackets, shields, helmets, shin guards and tear-gas apparatus.

He said the training would continue in the future and the trained cops would be
equipped with anti-riot bags.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             804 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

Reading the Riots: Rejected compensation claims pile on misery for devastated
victims: More than half of claims declined in worst-hit areas Lammy: failure to
pay out may lead to 'urban ghettos'

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor and Helen Clifton

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 680 words


More than half the claims for compensation after last year's riots have failed,
leaving hundreds of families and businesses struggling to make ends meet,
according to figures obtained by the Guardian.

Eleven months after David Cameron promised to get affected businesses "back up
and running", figures from nine police forces covering the worst-hit areas show
that of the 4,500 claims submitted under the Riots Damages Act, just over half
were rejected or discontinued.

The findings come as the Reading the Riots project by the Guardian and London
School of Economics reveals the continuing struggle faced by victims of the
riots. Interviews with people whose lives were turned upside down by the
violence and looting reveal that some have not received any money, while others
complain of a complicated and bureaucratic system.

In some cases assessors have demanded to see receipts even though the claimants'
entire possessions - including paperwork - have been destroyed.

The Labour MP for Tottenham, David Lammy, whose north London constituency was
badly hit last August, said the compensation system had failed victims and the
wider community.

"It is just staggering that as we approach a year on from the riots, these
people find themselves in a situation where their businesses are closing down or
going to the wall, their families are experiencing serious hardship and the way
they have been treated by the state bureaucracy is something akin to a situation
we would not even accept in a developing country."

Lammy said failure to properly compensate many of those who were hardest hit
risked creating "urban ghettos" as shopkeepers and businesses go bust or are
forced to move away. "If you are a Londoner you use these shops every day. These
are people who get up at 4am and don't finish until 12 at night, and this is how
they are to be treated . . . almost as if they are criminals trying to get more
than they deserve."

The figures on compensation claims come from nine forces: the Met, West
Midlands, Greater Manchester, Merseyside, Nottinghamshire, Surrey, Kent,
Gloucestershire and Avon and Somerset. The figures show that of the 4,558 claims
submitted under the Riots Damages Act, 2,331 were rejected or discontinued.

Despite suffering some outbreaks of disorder, Nottingham, Surrey and Kent -
which received 38 claims between them - did not class what happened in their
area as a riot.

In London, which suffered the most widespread violence and looting, 3,487 claims
were submitted and 1,829 rejected or discontinued.

Police forces said claims had been rejected because they did not meet the
criteria under the Riots Damages Act, either because the disturbances had not
been classed as a riot or because people were claiming for things that were not
covered such as "business interruption", loss of trade or damage to vehicles.
Police also said there had been multiple claims for a single incident or that
some claims had been submitted too late.

Sir William Castell, of the High Street Fund, which was set up to help
businesses with fewer than 12 employees, said it had paid out almost £3m to 575
victims and had rejected 14% of applications.

He said the state had to move much more quickly and effectively to help those
who had lost out: "It has been much too slow. It is a disgrace. Many of these
people have been given no chance to survive so they just close up shop."

Lammy said the figures showed the legislation was not fit for purpose. "The
Riots Damages Act is acting against communities, not for them," he said.

A Home Office spokesman said decisions on claims were "entirely a matter for
police authorities.

"The Home Office has promised to refund police authorities every penny they pay
out to householders and businesses who qualify under the Riot Damages Act."

Figures from the nine forces show that more than £9m has been paid out by police
forces under the Riots Damages Act so far.

More than 870 claims are still classed as outstanding, of which a handful relate
to money owed to individuals and the rest to insurance companies that have
already paid out to victims.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             805 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            December 1, 2013 Sunday
                                  Pune Edition

If Modi becomes PM,riots likely to follow: Sheila

BYLINE: Ambika Pandit TNN

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 308 words


New Delhi: Chief minister Sheila Dikshit took her party's anti-Modi rhetoric to
a new height on Saturday when she warned the people at a rally in Ballimaran
that if the Gujarat CM became Prime Minister,there was a possibility of riots
breaking out.Union minister Kapil Sibal insinuated further and said wherever
Modi went,riots invariably followed.These barbs came just an hour and a half
after Modi's own rally near Red Fort where he spared no opportunity to attack
Congress."Aur woh jo hain Narendra Modi...agar woh satta mein aa gaye to aisa na
ho ki yahaan dange ho jayein (If Narendra Modi comes to power,it is possible
that you may see riots)," Dikshit told the crowd.Sibal simply lashed out: "Modi
jahaan jatey hain wahaan riot ho jata hai.Gujarat mein Godhra aur UP mein gaye
toh phir riot ho gaya (Wherever Modi goes there is a riot.Godhra happened in
Gujarat and when he went to UP there was a riot).He wants to be PM.BJP has only
one hero,Modi,and in the court of this hero,all decisions are his.He makes us
all stand in that court and passes verdict where he gives himself 100 and
everyone else zero.I want to ask where the hero was in 2002 during Godhra riots
?" He went onto warn people to make the right choice."If you vote for the BJP
led by Modi then you may end up in a situation that led to 1947.If you vote for
Congress then you can hope for a secular,independent India that emerged after
Partition.Don't waste your votes on AAP.They have ridden into politics using the
Anna Hazare movement.They are not going to provide a stable government," Sibal
added.Dikshit said that BJP was misleading people and had no vision for Delhi.To
drive home her point,she gave the example of BJP's campaign on onion prices.She
said even though onion prices have come down to Rs 25 per kilo,BJP is still
accusing Congress of mismanaging the crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             806 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              July 26, 2013 Friday

Pussy power;
A documentary on imprisoned art-punk group Pussy Riot exposes Russia s
suppression of dissent. The film s co-director, Mike Lerner, talks to Tara Brady

SECTION: THE TICKET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1118 words


In February 2012, Pussy Riot - a Russian art collective sporting DayGlo
balaclavas - entered the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow. Their
40-second performance of a musical number that began with a Rachmaninov riff and
climaxed with the chorus "Mother of God, Drive Putin Away" could easily have
been witnessed only by a handful of worshippers. Instead, the group's "punk
prayer" against the increasingly incestuous melding of Church and State
interests under President Putin became a shot heard around the world. At least
five women took part in the demonstration, but only three - Nadia Tolokonnikova,
Masha Alyokhina, and Katia Samutsevich - were arrested and charged with
trespassing, wearing "inappropriate" (that is, sleeveless) dresses, and
disrupting the social order.

The incident provides the spine of a new documentary from the Oscar-nominated
filmmaker Mike Lerner and his Moscow-born, Brooklyn-based co-director, Maxim
Pozdorovkin.

"I became interested in making a film about Pussy Riot as soon as I saw pictures
of their Red Square action in January, 2012," says Lerner. "I've spent my life
making films about art and politics and these two subjects dovetail very neatly
with Pussy Riot. I was immediately struck by what a bunch of incredible people
they were and that they were articulating the spirit of that moment - that
moment of Putin's return to power - when there seemed to be an igniting of the
opposition in Russia. Once they got arrested, the film became a definite
process. We got in touch with their family and friends and lawyers and just went
out to Moscow and started working."

The finished film, Pussy Riot: A Punk Prayer, attempts to unravel the ghoulish
and misogynistic influences that seek to silence all voices of dissent in
Russia. Last spring, Patriarch Kirill I, the current pope of the Russian
Orthodox Church and a Putin appointee, led the charge against Pussy Riot. His
efforts, which ended with penal sentences for three of the feminist protesters,
might have been stopped by the sitting president at any time.

"It's an interesting aspect of the story because the protest itself was a
protest about the close relationship between church and state," notes Lerner.
"Putin wasn't driving the case but it's true that he could have intervened and
ended it at any time. Kirill was a Putin appointee and at the time of his
appointment people were quite surprised that he had won out over the other
contenders for pope. He was mired - at the time of the Pussy Riot protest - in a
number of controversies. He was photographed wearing a very expensive watch and
he denied ever having the watch and published the same photograph without the
watch. Unfortunately the watch was still reflected in the table. So this story
was lucky for him. It overrode and distracted from all the various controversies
around him. He definitely drove the action for propagandist reasons and Putin
jumped on board and honoured his commitment to him. After a while it suited
Putin as well to be seen to be going after these uncaring, religion-hating
women."

Last week, following the handing down of a similarly harsh five-year sentence to
anti-corruption crusader Aleksei Navalny, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev
confirmed what many commentators already knew, that Russia "does not have
independent courts."

"It shows how much further Russia has sunk in the period since Pussy Riot were
jailed," says Lerner. "What seemed like a hopeful moment of opposition a year
ago has faded. We're all really upset about the continuing clampdown and abuse
of power that Putin represents. Politics depend on political leaders. And in
Russia - as with Egypt - there's nobody left to represent the liberal point of
view. The second biggest party in Russia is the Communist Party. The religious
vote is 40 per cent. Where are the less conservative voices? They're not being
represented."

Unhappily, Pussy Riot: A Punk Prayer suggests that too many Russians are willing
to back the state's continuing clampdown on anything that might be deemed
transgressive. Former world chess champion Gary Kasparov, newshounds may recall,
was arrested and beaten for attempting to attend the reading of the verdict at
the Pussy Riot trial. In one of the film's most disconcerting scenes we meet the
Carriers of the Cross - a Russian Orthodox gang - who denounce Pussy Riot as
"demons". The "main one", suggests one of the Cross's amateur phrenologists:
"She is a strong demon - you can tell by her lips, her mouth - she'll fight."

Did the filmmakers encounter this kind of antagonism when they were shooting in
Moscow, I wonder? "They weren't antagonistic," says Lerner. "They were kind of
confused. At that first bail hearing in the film there were maybe 120
journalists from all over Russia and I think we were the only foreign
journalists there. So everyone was asking 'what are you doing here?' And I would
say 'well, I'm a British filmmaker and punk rock is a British phenomenon so I
want to look at this continuation of the movement'. I was surprised to find that
even quite liberal people thought that what Pussy Riot had done in the church
was unacceptable. Historically, the church has been repressed in Russia so they
felt that the church was an unreasonable target."

Despite the women's spirited and hyper-articulate defence in a very public
trial, despite attempted interventions from world leaders and most of the
planet's rock music community, two of Pussy Riot's members - Nadezhda "Nadya"
Tolokonnikova and Maria "Masha" Alekhina - continue to languish in jail. Whither
Russian feminism?

As Mike Lerner points out, this isn't just about Russia: "Freedom of speech and
freedom of expression is under attack in all our societies in very depressing
ways. Thousands of laws have been introduced eroding our freedoms. And, as
Ireland knows too well, we've seen a big feminist backlash lately. Pussy Riot
have shown us all how some inspiring figures have dealt head on with misogyny.
They would call themselves feminist revolutionaries; revolutionary movements are
always on the verge of collapse and are always subject to setbacks. The jailing
of Pussy Riot is a setback but in the long term they have won. They have
provided an incredible lightning bolt for any young person anywhere in the world
who feels things are not as they should be. Before Pussy Riot nobody discussed
feminist and gay rights in Russia. Now, even if they disagree with everything
they say, there has to be debate. Things will never be the same after Pussy Riot
."

|||Pussy Riot: A Punk Prayer is playing as part of GAZE International LGBT Film
Festival, August 1-5 at the Light House Cinema, Dublin 7 and at QFT, Belfast
from today

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             807 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

They thought they could get away with it...;
Political Editor

BYLINE: JONATHANWALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1853 words


Poor policing in London was blamed for riots which spread across the country and
claimed three lives in Birmingham, in the first report by the Government's Riots
Communities and Victims Panel.

But the inquiry also highlighted a wide range of factors which encouraged people
to take part in looting - ranging from poverty and lack of opportunities for
young people to the way brands are advertised and even good public transport
links.

Social media, which allow people to publish and spread information on computers
and mobile phones, helped the violence to spread and allowed looters to outwit
the police, the panel said.

The Riots Communities and Victims Panel was set up by Nick Clegg, the Deputy
Prime Minister, to investigate the causes of August's riots.

It is chaired by Darra Singh, the chief executive of Jobcentre Plus and former
chief executive of Ealing and Luton council, and has published an interim report
following an inquiry which included talking to Birmingham residents at a public
meeting in Handsworth.

The inquiry drew a clear distinction between the initial unrest in Tottenham on
Saturday August 6 and Sunday August 7, triggered by the shooting of 29-year-old
Mark Duggan, and the spread of violence across London and elsewhere, which it
blamed on police allowing rioters control the streets for two nights in a row.

"Those who rioted on Sunday were again felt to have been unchallenged and
confidence among potential rioters in other parts of the country grew. By
Monday, riots had spread nationally. "Local policing decisions can lead to
national consequences."

The report added: "The vast majority of people we spoke to believed that the
sole trigger for disturbances in their areas was the perception that the police
could not contain the scale of rioting in Tottenham and then across London.
"Lack of confidence in the police response to the initial riots encouraged
people to test reactions in other areas... rioters believed they would be able
to loot and damage without being challenged by the police. In the hardest hit
areas, they were correct."

The role of social media as well as television images which showed London in
flames, was also highlighted.

The panel said social media played a positive role in providing information to
members of the public, but warned: "There is no question that the rioters were
aided by the existence of social media".

The report said: "In our analysis, the images of police being seen to 'back off'
in Tottenham and their rapid circulation across social media and broadcast news
services conveyed a loss of control of the streets.

"This combined with a febrile rumour environment created a unprecedented
explosive cocktail.

"It began to build a perception (and ultimate reality) that the street was no
longer defended or defensible once resources were split. Second, the ability of
social media to act as a platform for mobs to regroup and move at fast speed
across the cities in ways which in effect outpaced traditional policing."

Ladywood MP Shabana Mahmood (Lab) said: "I am a little disappointed that the
report seems to focus on London, as there are questions about what happened in
Birmingham that still need to be answered.

"I am very clear that the riots were criminal acts and the main motivation was
to go out and rob, and the interim report seems to confirm that view."

A final report from the panel is due in March.

Who rioted? Although there was a tendency to see the riots as an event involving
young people, with sections of the media blaming a lack of youth clubs or cuts
to the Education Maintenance Allowance received by some sixth-form or further
education students, only 26 per cent of people who appeared before the courts
for crimes committed during the riots were under 18. Nine out of ten were male
and 42 per cent were white while 46 per cent were black and seven per cent were
Asian.

Youngsters aged 10 to 17 who came before the courts were two-and-a-half times
more likely than other pupils to be receiving free school meals, and 66 per cent
had special educational needs - a figure which is three times higher than for
the population as a whole.

Nationally, 40 per cent of adult rioters were on benefits, including 10 per cent
who were on Employment and Support Allowance or Incapacity benefits.

The panel said: "Most disturbing to us was a widespread feeling that some
rioters had no hope and nothing to lose.

Why were some towns and cities spared? There was a link between deprivation and
rioting, the inquiry found.

Analysis of 1479 areas in England where rioters live found that 70 per cent of
those areas are in the 30 per cent most deprived.

However, some relatively poor cities such as Sheffield and Bradford did not
experience riots, while some fairly wealthy areas like St Albans and North
Hertfordshire did.

The inquiry found that many of the areas affected by rioting had other things in
commons, such as "attractive shops" and good transport links, allowing people to
come in to the area with the intent of stealing.

One of the reasons Sheffield escaped the disorder was because local rail links
are poor.

How the media helped - and made things worse The media was a source of useful
information to members of the public throughout the riots, but also helped to
encourage some of the disorder, the report warned.

Television news reports showing police unable to cope were actually used by
looters to decide where to target next.

The study warned: "Television channels showed repeat footage of the fires,
looters stealing trainers and TVs, police being subject to attack, mobs breaking
into shops and London as a city under siege."

It added: "Convicted rioters discussed how the news became a source of
information about where police resources were stretched. One offender told us:
'I just needed to watch the TV to see where I needed to head to'."

The report's authors stressed that television reports were an important source
of information for ordinary people, but added: "In some instances, news coverage
of the riots provided information which could be used by the rioters against
ordinary citizens.

"In other cases, the prospect of media coverage was an added attraction for
rioters, an appealing prospect of '15 minutes of fame'."

The panel praised local and regional media.

"Many people we spoke to particularly commended regional and local news outlets
for their coverage of the riots, the clean ups and their efforts to support
police investigations to bring rioters to justice."

The role of social media Social media such as Facebook, Twitter and the
Blackberry messaging service BBM allowed looters to organise themselves, and
encouraged a herd mentality. The report's authors said: "It seem clear to us
that the spread of rioting was made worse both by televised images of police
apparently watching people cause damage and loot at will, and by the ability of
social media to bring together determined people to act collectively." But they
came out against suggestions that the Government should shut down social media
when riots take place.

"Many local authorities and other agencies used social media during the riots to
get information to local people and businesses, to alert parents to keep their
children at home, to ask youth workers dealing with young offenders to take them
off the streets and to support and promote instant community fight back groups."

Did the police fail? The panel insisted "we are not in a position to judge
police tactics", but was nonetheless highly critical of the police's failure to
control the disorder.

The report said: "Our view is that the police, when carrying out their own
review of tactics, must take account of this widely held perception that they
abandoned some communities. "Victims felt they did not receive police support
when they were in considerable danger. Businesses told us they lost everything
they had worked for. Communities felt they had been left without protection."

In some cases, police officers were deployed to areas where there was no
violence - which meant there were too few officers available to protect shops
and homes in places where riots took place.

"The wider impact, both within an area and nationally, of the perception that
individuals can riot without response is a key lesson of the riots."

Generation greed Britain's materialistic culture was also a factor in the riots
according to the panel, which devoted a section of the report to the power of
brands. They noted that looters typically attacked specific shops, such as JD
Sports, Footlocker and mobile phone shops.

And although they insisted they were not blaming businesses, they also appeared
to blame "creative marketing strategies" for promoting greed.

The report said: "Over the last 20 years, we have witnessed the rise of the
brands. They have employed creative marketing strategies which positioned
products not only as symbols of success but also as markers of individual
selfesteem.

"Increasingly we live in a society where conspicuous consumption and self worth
have become intrinsically interlinked."

They added: "In the Panel's conversations with communities and young people, the
desire to own goods which give the owner high status (such as branded trainers
and digital gadgets) was seen as an important factor behind the riots.

"In addition, the idea of 'saving up' for something has been replaced by the
idea that we should have what we want when we want. Levels of personal debt are
in part a scary testimony to this.

"When asked why he rioted, one rioter responded simply 'greed'."

The panel said: "It is important to clarify that we are not in any way condoning
this behaviour, it is wrong to steal, nor do we blame the brands for what
happened. Rather, we are considering all the features which made these riots so
extraordinary, in order to help prevent events like these from happening again."

What happened? Between August 6 and August 10 an estimated 13,000 to 15,000
people were actively involved in riots in England, according to the report. More
than 5,000 crimes were reported, including 363 in Birmingham. West Midlands
Police reported 296 attacks on officers.

There were five deaths: ¦ Haroon Jahan, 21, Shahzad Ali, 30, and Abdul Musavir,
31, were run over by a car in Birmingham. ¦ Richard Mannington Bowes, 68, was
injured and later died in Ealing. ¦ Trevor Ellis, 26, was shot in his car in
Croydon.

From top: Haroon Jahan, Shahzad Ali, and Abdul Musavir died in the riots The
financial cost The riots may have cost the country almost a billion pounds.

This includes: Up to pounds 300 million claims under the Riot (Damages) Act 1886
pounds 30 million in government funding to help businesses and high streets
recover ¦ More than pounds 30 million in lost sales to retail businesses ¦ Costs
to police of pounds 50 million, including overtime costs ¦ Costs to authorities
including significant clean-up costs, running into tens of millions of pounds. ¦
330,000 tourists have been predicted to go elsewhere, cutting tourism spending
by pounds 520 million over the next 12 months.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  A rioter on the streets of Birmingham in August Rioters breaking the
window of a jewellery shop near the Bullring in Birmingham. Lack of confidence
in the Met police response to the initial riots in London led to further
disturbances across the country, a report has found

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: bp


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             808 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            January 31, 2014 Friday
                                  Pune Edition

Congress in dock as Rahul resurrects anti-Sikh riots

BYLINE: TIMES NEWS NETWORK

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 472 words



HIGHLIGHT: Till Now Focus Was Only On Sajjan Kumar,Jagdish Tytler


New Delhi: Congress is concerned that Rahul Gandhi has inserted anti-Sikh riots
into the political discourse,shrinking its elbow room to attack Narendra Modi on
the issue of anti-Muslim carnage.Rising protests from Sikh groups and the
figuring of 1984 riots in news bulletins has put Congress in the firing line of
the 1984 riots that was till now confined to individuals like Sajjan Kumar and
Jagdish Tytler.Even in 2009,the drama over anti-Sikh riots was provoked by the
limited issue of Congress giving election tickets to Kumar and Tytler before
retracting.If the Sikh riots continue to dominate headlines,they could draw
parity between Congress and BJP among opinion-makers and a defensive "secular"
party would be hamstrung in raising the ante against Modi on the issue of riots
.The key worry is the 1984 issue may now figure in every public interaction Modi
makes and it would be difficult to duck the issue.With each passing day that
Congress has to defend itself,the ruling camp feels it is losing its aggressive
edge against Modi.It may be an advantage for the Hindutva strongman who is
trying his best to soften his rough edges dating back to anti-Muslim riots and
appear as a moderate.This has implications for the post-election scenario given
that BJP would be needing allies who have "secular" roots.That NCP is already
making conciliatory noises in favour of the Gujarat chief minister is an
eye-opener.There is a sense of regret in Congress that Rahul could not tackle
the question on riots effectively.While conceding too much ground,without
putting Modi on the defensive on Gujarat riots,his ambivalent response prised
open the 1984 issue for debate.Instead,he could have simply referred to the
apologies issued by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh 10 years ago.Many in the party blame the poor background briefing to Rahul
for the fiasco.Now,there is hope that Rahul would make up for the lapse in the
coming TV interviews that are lined up.While leaders are happy that the
reluctant leader has finally decided to communicate with the public and interact
with the press,they would want him to appear engaged.This when future
interactions may not be easy to navigate now that he has bared the chinks in his
armour.200 Sikhs protest outside Cong headquarters New Delhi: A group of nearly
200 Sikhs,led by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and comprising
Shiromani Akali Dal supporters,protested outside Congress headquarters at Akbar
Road on Thursday morning against Rahul Gandhi's comments on the 1984 anti-Sikh
riots.They demanded Rahul Gandhi comes clean on his statements and an SIT probe
ordered into the protests.Police had to resort to mild force to prevent a law
and order situation.The protesters demanded that Rahul Gandhi also joined the
probe into the 1984 riots.TNN

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             809 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

NHL blasted for lacking anti-riot plan;
Report says pro hockey can't be separated from the Stanley Cup lawlessness,
urges league to promote 'peaceful' celebrations

BYLINE: ROD MICKLEBURGH

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; CITY REVIEW; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The city's own review of the June 15 Stanley Cup riot rips into the National
Hockey League for its alleged hands-off attitude to potentially rowdy playoff
celebrations.

"In spite of four Stanley Cup riots in the last five years, [the NHL] has no
approach, no policy and no apparent strategy to work with host franchises and
municipalities on this issue," says the lengthy internal report to be debated at
a special council meeting on Tuesday.

"[This] clearly ... threatens the value and perception of their brand."

The city's criticism of the NHL follows similar barbs tossed at the league by
the provincially appointment independent review of the riot, headed by co-chairs
Douglas Keefe and John Furlong.

In their report released last week, they said it was "unfortunate and
regrettable" that the NHL has no specific programs to help teams "with the kind
of challenge [Vancouver] faced that night."

Concluding that the sport of professional hockey, itself, cannot be separated
from the riot, they urged the NHL to work with teams and communities to promote
"peaceful, happy hockey celebrations."

Councillor Suzanne Anton, who is likely to press hard at Tuesday's council
meeting for more riot accountability by Mayor Gregor Robertson, also called on
the NHL to do more. "I was pretty shocked in that report at the disengagement of
the league," she said.

"They need to own their own brand better."

In its riot review, the city said the NHL's do-nothing approach is in stark
contrast to the National Football League, which works aggressively with all 32
teams to see that a specific fan code of contact is enforced to ensure a safe
environment at league games.

The NHL rejected the criticism.

"[The league] already has successful programs that ensure responsible fan
behaviour in all our game venues," spokesman Frank Brown said in an e-mailed
statement.

Mr. Brown added that the NHL is "happy to collaborate - and regularly does -
with civic officials" when asked to help out with league events.

The city review, prepared by staff, also calls for the Vancouver Canucks to be
more involved in planning future fan celebrations, should the team make another
run for the Stanley Cup.

That should include financial assistance, Mayor Gregor Robertson told reporters
Friday, noting that other sports organizations and teams often toss in money for
big fan events. "The Canucks are a real beneficiary of these gatherings. They
make a lot of money ... and there are real costs involved."

In a statement released shortly after the Keefe-Furlong report came down, the
Canucks pledged a season-long campaign to promote responsible fan behaviour.

"We want to do what we can ... so that if future public viewing events of our
games are planned, they are done so without the recurrence of the incidents of
June 15," the team said.

Tuesday's council get-together will provide the first full public canvassing of
the riot and ways to avoid trouble at further large celebrations, such as this
November's Grey Cup festivities here.

Earlier in the day, the Vancouver Police Department will release its critique of
the riots at a meeting of the police board.

Costs of the riot are likely to be discussed at both sessions.

The city's report disclosed that the riot caused Police Chief Jim Chu's
original, council-approved budget to soar over his estimate by nearly a quarter
of a million dollars.

Damages to police cars and other equipment, along with overtime on the night of
June 15, put the total cost of policing during the playoffs at $893,800,
according to the report, well over Chief Chu's initial budget of $648,000.

Mr. Robertson said the total cost to the city of the four playoff rounds
amounted to nearly $2-million.

Another issue up for discussion is a call for more surveillance cameras to
assist police during special-event gatherings.

The city's internal review said CCTV cameras are useful to monitor crowd
activities, help deploy police in case of disturbances and identify participants
in unruly behaviour.

"I think there's a case to be made to have these cameras available," Mr.
Robertson said.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             810 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mixed legacy of the London riots

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 462 words


AFTER the riots of 1981 and 2001 the Scarman Report and the Cantle Report
systematically reviewed the matters leading up to the disturbances and the riots
themselves. After the 2011 riots the Government decided not to commission a
report, so there was never a definitive analysis or recommendations which might
prevent riots of a similar kind from occurring again. Two years on we see the
consequences of that decision and, as your leading article yesterday pointed
out, many of the issues remain unresolved. Martin Davis, director, Community
Safety Information Service TWO years after the riots of August 2011 the Mayor is
quite rightly focused on criminal perpetrators and their victims ("325 suspects
still free two years after London riots", August 6). But this must not distract
us from the crucial need to work with young people before they get to the point
of destructive disengagement.

We at Community Links have been delivering "Youth Street Action", a crime
diversionary programme working on the streets with more than 6,000 young
Londoners, but the contract ends this month. Now, for many young people, their
first point of contact with authority will not be with supportive youth workers
but with the police.

It is critical to invest in building fences at the top of the cliff rather than
pay for the ambulances and police cars to mop up at the bottom. Geraldine Blake,
chief executive, Community Links IN Tottenham in the past two years we've seen
the community-led regeneration of Lordship Recreation Ground, restored to its
original glory with Heritage Lottery money. Next, Tottenham Green is earmarked
for major improvements. Nearly all of the riot damaged sites on the High Road
have been rebuilt or repaired. We have seen national high street chains such as
Sainsbury's and Costa Coffee open new premises alongside new shops by local
independent retailers. This all gives the sense that things are improving,
business confidence is growing and regeneration is actually happening in our
area.

Matthew Bradby, chairman, Tottenham Civic Society AFTER the riots, political
promises were made about regeneration and community engagement. What we have
instead seen, is a cut in social projects and less money for cohesion and
conflict resolution projects.

Last week, while in Tottenham, I asked a young man of African Caribbean heritage
living off the High Road what the future would be for him. He said: "After the
cameras left and the news junkies got their shots of groups of young men acting
like louts, the whole world moved on and forgot us. Now we are just in the
shadows again."

Fiyaz Mughal, director, Faith Mattters

For many young people, their first point of contact with authority will not be
with supportive youth workers but with the police Geraldine Blake

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             811 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

Taxpayers to pick up pounds 2m bill for policing Merseyside riots

BYLINE: David Bartlett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 492 words


MORE than 80% of yobs suspected to have taken part in last month's riots in
Merseyside already had criminal convictions, according to official data.

The Ministry of Justice revealed that by midday on Monday 69 people had appeared
in court connected with the public disorder in early August.

The data was released as Merseyside Police Authority revealed the cost of the
riots to the taxpayer is almost pounds 2m.

The force moved to 12-hour shifts and had to pay out pounds 1.73m in overtime,
and also paid out pounds 249,000 in non-staffing costs.

As the investigation into the riots continues the cost is expected to exceed
pounds 2m.

Merseyside Police is expecting to submit a bid to the Home Office to cover the
costs but at this stage it is not known whether the government will agree to
pay.

Of the people who have appeared in court only two people have been jailed, 21
have been remanded in custody and 19 people were released after being found
guilty.

Three were acquitted, the outcome of one hearing was not recorded and the rest
have been released on bail.

In Merseyside 35% of the those who took part in the riots were juveniles, and 7%
were older than 40 years old.

Only 23% of juveniles in Merseyside did not already have a criminal record,
while almost 30% had committed at least three previous offences. Of the adults
that have so far appeared in front of the courts locally, 10% have previously
committed more than 50 crimes and 21% had committed between 15 and 49 crimes.
Only 16% of the adults did not have a criminal record.

Justice Secretary Ken Clarke said: "I congratulate the courts for delivering
swift and firm justice which stopped the riots spreading further.

"I am dismayed to see a hardcore of repeat offenders back in the system.

"This reinforces my determination to introduce radical changes to ensure both
effective punishment and reform to tackle reoffending."

The police authority has also received 24 claims from businesses and residents
under the Riot Damages Act, so far pounds 1,240 has been paid out with a further
pounds 8,000 due to be paid, although this figure could rise.

Police vehicles and buildings were also damaged in the violence.

Windscreens had to be replaced on 23 vehicles, four vehicles had emergency
mechanical repairs, and 47 vehicles are still requiring bodywork repairs.

Admiral Street police station also suffered extensive damage, but specialist
protective glass shielded the building from more serious damage.

The police authority report states: "It is estimated that the costs could exceed
pounds 2m."

A spokesman for the Home Office said: "The government has made clear that it
will support the police.

"There is already an established system of special grants in place to support
forces where they face unexpected or exceptional costs.

"It is up to individual forces if they wish to apply for a special grant and all
applications will be considered."

Opinion: Page 19

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Riot police with looters in Clapham Junction Riot officers stand their
ground outside Admiral Street police station Riots on Smithdown Road in Toxteth

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             812 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Monitor (Kampala)

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday

Government Slow On Probing Riots Deaths - Activists

BYLINE: Gerald Bareebe

LENGTH: 470  words


The Ugandan government has done little to investigate or hold security forces
responsible for the killing of over 40 civilians during last year's Buganda
riots, an international human rights watchdog said yesterday.

Ms Rona Peligal, the Africa director at Human Rights Watch, said despite
multiple promises from government officials after the riots, police
investigations have not resulted in any prosecution.

Ms Peligal also accused the parliamentary committee tasked with examining the
September deadly riots of being slow after it emerged it was yet to start its
investigations, a year after the riots broke out.

"The Ugandan authorities should prosecute members of the security forces who
used unnecessary lethal force during the September 2009 violence," Ms Peligal
said. "The government's indifference to the families of those who lost their
lives is cruel and sets the stage for future abuses."

The riots broke out after the central government blocked Kabaka Ronald Muwenda
Mutebi from visiting Kayunga District to preside over Buganda Youth Day
Celebrations. This was after the Banyala - a tribe that claims cessation from
Buganda Kingdom- protested the king's visit to the area.

Demonstrators--mostly youths loyal to the Kabaka--blocked roads and burnt
vehicles and tyres, protesting the decision to block the king's tour. The
government deployed soldiers, military police, regular police and armoured
vehicles to quell the riots. The protestors resorted to burning debris in the
roads, blocking traffic, and throwing rocks, forcing security to respond with
lethal force.

Although the government says 27 people lost their lives, Human Rights watch said
hospital records and its investigations put the death toll at over 40. Internal
Affairs Minister Kirunda Kivejinja said yesterday that the Uganda police is
overstretched with fighting terrorism. He revealed that investigating the
killings during the Buganda riots is not a major issue, especially at the time
when the country is under constant terror threat.

"Our capacity to handle different things at the same time is very limited," Mr
Kivejinja said. "Government has a will to bring the culprits to book but do we
have the capacity to investigate terrorism and the Buganda riots at the same
time?

He added, "We have now a problem of terrorism and all the machinery has been
focused to prevention of terrorism. Where do you want me to get the force to
investigate Buganda riots, general crimes and terrorism with just 5,000
investigators in the whole country?"

A statement from Human Rights Watch said days after the unrest, the police
conducted brutal mass arrests of hundreds of young men, beating alleged riot
suspects. The government eventually charged at least 31 people with terrorism
for burning vehicles and a police station. Twenty-three are awaiting trial.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             813 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

Iran Guards Corps commander says "enemy" dragging riots to universities

LENGTH: 775 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "IRGC Commander: Enemy is trying to drag
the riots inside the universities" published by Iranian newspaper Keyhan on 5
October

Commander Araqi explained few details regarding post-riot elections and said:
The enemy is trying to drag the riots to the universities. Commander Abdollah
Araqi, Tehran's IRGC [Islamic Revolution Guard Corps] commander, in an interview
with IRNA (Islamic Republic News Agency) referred to discrepancies in the total
number of deaths reported by the press during the recent riots. He said: They
wanted to exaggerate the number of casualties to continue the rioting to
coincide with the re-opening of the universities, and in this way drag the riots
to the cultural atmosphere [of the country] and deceive public opinion.

Emphasizing that the opinion of the Leader [Ayatollah Khamene'i] is to empathize
with the injured, Commander Araqi said: Around 24 people were reported killed
from both the sides during the post-poll riots. We have to empathize with their
families and these people will either be declared martyrs or will be taken under
Welfare Organization's cover.

He added: Around 700 members of voluntary forces (Basij) were injured in these
riots but there is no exact number of rioters being injured. The names of 72
people, who were reported killed, had many of many those, who are continuing
with their daily lives inside and outside the country.

Ensuring that the presence of IRGC to control the riots was according to the
constitution, he said that the IRGC and Basij are responsible for defending the
regimes' interest and whenever they think that the regime is in danger - as they
did during the riots - they will act accordingly.

Commander Araqi emphasized: This time the rioters were different from the last
times, especially since the year 1378 [1999], when the riots in the universities
broke out or when there were bazaar merchant's riots. This time the riots were
more organized, the rioters were able to find each other, communicate and
coordinate their actions.

About the attack to Lowlagar Mosque, the IRGC commander said: The Basijis inside
the mosque were under attack for more than two hours and were beaten by the
rioters. The rioters also burnt this command centre and the Basijis did not even
fire a single shot but they told the world that the voluntary forces killed
people. Some of the rioters shot at the people but blamed the Basij, the police
and the Intelligence Ministry.

About communicating IRGC's role in the holy defence [Iran-Iraq war from 1980 to
1988] with the third generation, Commander Araqi explained: This communication
must be implemented through mediums such as theatre, cinema, newspapers and
martyr memoirs.

He also mentioned that programmes such as memoirs, resistance camps, military
exercises and fairs can be interesting for the young generation and they can
benefit and learn about the life of martyrs from cultural events in the form of
motion pictures and TV serials.

In another part of the interview, the IRGC commander informed about the IRGC's
intention to make a film about martyr Zeynoddin. He said: When we talked to the
martyr's mother about making this film, she requested to show the entire truth
so that it can be a strong movie.

Commander Abdollah Araqi added: According to the constitution, the IRGC has
already started to tackle the soft war inside and outside the country. He also
mentioned that although some part of tackling the soft war is the responsibility
of the Guard Corps, the rest of it lies in the hands of others, who are in
charge of different government organization.

He said that tackling the soft war has its own types of weaponry. However, the
structure of the Guard Corps has become so strong today - by building different
missiles - that wherever the national interests are in danger, we can use IRGC.

In response to the question that how much were the Guard Corps able to transform
the meaning of the holy defence to the third generation, Commander Araqi said:
We are a little behind in transferring the meaning and ideology of the holy
defence as this task should not be only IRGC's responsibility.

He said: Along with the Guard Corps, other ministries and news agencies also
have a vital role in conveying the message of holy defence to the third
generation.

He further said: If we were able to convey this clearly, we would never have had
these types of street. We must send across the meaning of the holy defence
during the calm. If our cultural pillar was strong enough, some people would not
have been able to start these street riots with their lies.

Source: Keyhan website, Tehran, in Persian 05 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             814 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              TOWNSVILLE BULLETIN

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

Australia's Day of Shame Negative publicity from race violence spreads worldwide

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 446  words


SYDNEY'S race riots received wide media coverage across Asia and beyond.

The news of the violence threatens to cast a shadow over Prime Minister John
Howard's visit to mainly Muslim Malaysia this week for a landmark meeting of
regional leaders.

In Kuala Lumpur, the New Straits Times newspaper carried a front-page photo of
police armed with batons battling rioters in Cronulla with the headline 'Race
Riot Down Under'.

The rival Malaysia Star carried the story under the banner 'Racial Tensions
Spark Sydney Beach Violence'.

The Philippines media also reported the violence.

'Racial riot breaks out on Aussie Beach', The Manila Times said.

The Hong Kong The Standard newspaper said 'Race riot flares in Sydney'.

In Indonesia, the Indo Pos newspaper carried a front-page headline 'Race riots
shake Australia'.

Several other Indonesian newspapers carried pictures of the riots.

The Middle East-based al-Jazeera TV network showed footage of the mayhem and ran
a story on its website headlined: 'Race riots spread in Sydney' with a picture
captioned 'Drunken thugs on the rampage'.

The story even featured in papers as far afield as London, where The Times
described a 'Battle on Beach as mob vow to defend Aussie way of Life'.

''Furious locals, many wielding empty beer bottles and waving Australian flags,
shouted anti-Middle Eastern slogans as they marched across the sand, on which
was written 100 per cent Aussie pride,'' the Times said. ''One white teenager
had the words 'We grew up here, you flew here' painted across his back.''

The Guardian said ''racial unrest turned a popular beachside suburb into a
battleground.

''Draped in Australian flags and singing Waltzing Matilda, the alcohol-fuelled
crowd attacked people of Middle Eastern appearance whom they blamed for an
assault on their lifestyle,'' the Guardian said.

''Racial tensions erupted into running battles between police and thousands of
white youths, many chanting racial slurs against ethnic Middle Easterners, at a
beachside suburb in southern Sydney, Australia,'' British Press Association
reported.

''Police and ambulance officers were pelted with beer cans and bottles, and an
ambulance was attacked,'' the BBC said on its website.

Mr Howard arrives in Kuala Lumpur today to attend a 16-nation summit aimed at
opening talks on a regional trade block and East Asia community stretching from
China to India, Japan and New Zealand.

But the summit nations are split between countries who support an inclusive
model involving Australia and New Zealand, including Indonesia and Singapore,
and nations led by China and host Malaysia who would prefer an Asian core with
Canberra and Wellington relegated to the sidelines in future.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             815 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 5, 1994

Anti-Nazi riot included Scots agitators

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 624 words


VIOLENT political agitators and hunt saboteurs from Scotland were among the 1500
demonstrators who battled with police outside the British National Party
headquarters in south London last year, it was revealed yesterday.

Senior police officers admitted they lost control of the riot for 25 minutes of
the two-and-a-half hour war on the streets of Welling, Kent, on Saturday,
October 16.

Two hundred police officers were injured and one, an inspector, had his jaw
broken by a flying brick.

So far, 34 people have been charged with a variety of public order offences
including rioting, which carries a maximum 10-year prison sentence.

Yesterday, police released video and still photographs of about 80 men wanted
over the most serious offences during the riots in which bricks, steel fence
posts, and wooden stakes were ripped from the ground and hurled at police.

From the photos and vidoes, police have already identified a ring-leader of the
riots they are "desperate" to track down and name.

Detective Superintendent Douglas Auld, who heads the inquiry, said left-wing
agitators involved with hunt saboteurs were key members of the riots.

Police said they were "aware of where the riots flashpoint would be" before it
began and positioned video cameras on the tops of buildings to capture the key
rioters in action.

They also obtained court orders to seize TV news footage and press photographs
of the riot.

Police have studied more than 50 hours of film and 1250 still photographs of the
riots between racist BNP members and left-wing protestors from the Anti -Nazi
League, Youth Against Racism in Europe, and the Indian Workers Association.

More than 15,000 protestors marched on the day of the riot and 1500 were
involved in actual rioting.

Of those involved in the clash outside the BNP's bookshop headquarters in Upper
Wickham Lane, Welling, police are seeking "the worst 80".

Detective Superintendent Auld said: "This riot was not a five-minute wonder. It
went on for two to two-and-a-half hours.

"The people we are seeking were prominent through the main part of that period.

"We know people came from at least as far north as Dundee and as far south as
Plymouth, while others came from Liverpool and Manchester.

"We had received information that people were coming to attend who were
determined it was not going to be a peaceful march.

"We know that most weekends there are about 20 to 25 hunts on where saboteurs
attend -- that weekend there was one. Some of them are most definitely political
agitators.

"People we are seeking looted, rioted, turned over cars. At one stage, it took
20 to 25 minutes to regain control of the situation. We had a pretty good idea
where the flashpoint was going to be at Welling.

"About 200 policemen were injured in the riot -- all of them are now back on
duty.

"Not a single member of the public was injured but terrible damage was done to
gardens and buildings with bricks, wooden fences, and metal stakes ripped up and
thrown at police.

"So far, we have released the photographs in our internal magazine for police
eyes only and six people have been arrested and five charged with rioting.

"Another seven have been named from the magazine which was only given to police
a fortnight ago.

"There are about 80 people that we are looking for. These 80 are the ones who
committed the most serious offences but there were probably 200 to 300 people
committing offences that day.

"So far, there have been 37 arrests and 28 people charged with lesser offences
from the day. One of those 28 has been charged with rioting -- a much more
serious offence.

Five others since have been charged with rioting.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                             816 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                    March 25, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Stole sign during Cup riot, man to serve 6 months

BYLINE: GEOFF BAKER; GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 322 words


A 22-year-old university student was sentenced yesterday to six months in prison
for participating in the June 1993 Stanley Cup riot.

Andrew Fuller was convicted of breaking off and stealing a one-way sign from a
post during the riot, which left 168 people injured and $ 2.5 million in
property damage in the hours after the Montreal Canadiens' Stanley Cup win.

Fuller will also have to perform 150 hours of community service.

"The gravity of the act does not lie in the destruction of the sign itself,"
Municipal Court Judge Denis Laliberte said.

"The relatively minor offence . . . becomes much more serious when it is
committed during a full-blown riot. His actions have had a direct impact on the
multitude. His acts encourage others to take part in the riot."

In all, 115 people were arrested in the riot, most of them aged 16 to 25.

Laliberte said the rioters' sole purpose was "the pleasure of destroying,
terrorizing and putting fear into those who did not want to be part of the riot
."

Fuller, a St. Bruno resident, testified that he used public transit to get
downtown because he didn't want to take his car for fear it would be damaged.

Laliberte said this indicated Fuller knew there would be trouble, calling the
student's presence there "planned and deliberate."

Despite the availability of routes away from trouble spots, Laliberte said,
Fuller showed "moral culpability" by choosing to stay. Fuller had testified he
stayed because of the revellers' festive attitude.

In sentencing Fuller, Laliberte also noted the student had consumed 11 glasses
of beer at a pub and then bought a six-pack of beer at a depanneur.

A police officer spotted Fuller just after midnight as he was pulling down the
sign at St. Marc and Ste. Catherine Sts.

Laliberte said that even though the accused has a high level of education and
plans to continue it, this was not enough to prevent a prison term.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             817 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday

Book Rahul Gandhi for 1984 riots 'confession': Sukhbir Badal

BYLINE: Yudhvir Rana

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 558 words


AMRITSAR: Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said the
courts should take suo motu notice of Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi's
remarks in an interview to Times Now that some of his partymen were involved in
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, asking Punjab Congress leaders to quit the party after
such a "confession".

Speaking to reporters after the inauguration of city bus service here, the
Shiromani Akali Dal president said, "We had been saying from day one that
Congress had led 1984 anti-Sikh riots and now the 'karta dharta' (in charge) of
the party has admitted it." Sukhbir said a case should be filed against Rahul
for his "admission".

In reply to a question whether SAD would move court following Rahul's statement,
Sukhbir answered, "We will examine and act accordingly. Not only Congress
leaders of Punjab but the whole Sikh community should boycott the party for its
role in the 1984 pogrom in which thousands of Sikhs were murdered in cold
blood."

The deputy CM also reminded that Rahul's father Rajiv Gandhi had said 'jab koi
bara per girta hai toh dharti hilti hi hai' (when a big tree falls, the ground
is bound to shake) in reaction to the riots in Delhi in 1984 after his mother
and then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's assassination.

He quipped that on one side Rahul claimed that the Congress government tried to
prevent the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and on the other admitted involvement of some
of the party leaders in the mayhem and later refused to apologize. He asked
Rahul to name Congress members involved in the riots and why they were not
arrested. "Congress was abetting the riots and not preventing them," Sukhbir
alleged.

Refusing to equate 1984 massacre of Sikhs with the Gujarat anti-Muslim riots,
Sukhbir said, "There is lot of difference between the two incidents. The Gujarat
government had even given a clean chit to chief minister Narendra Modi saying he
had no role in the riots."

Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, who was in Tarn Taran district to
attend a function at Sursingh village, also reacted to Rahul's statement,
saying, "Whatever had happened in 1984 was connived by Congress. Various
commissions set up to investigate the riots had also proved the same." He said
no one could deny the hand of Congress behind the Sikhs' carnage.

Meanwhile, Sikh organizations in the country and abroad too have sharpened their
attack on the Congress after Rahul's statement. Karan Singh, president, Sikh
Foundation, Switzerland, said, "Now that Rahul has brazenly admitted involvement
of Congressmen in the anti-Sikh riots, human rights groups should take note of
it to punish the guilty."

Centre for Sikh Studies chief Gurdeep Singh Kundan said, "The 1984 anti-Sikh
riots were the biggest blot on the face of India. Now, Rahul should not make the
community a target again for electoral gains."

Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Avtar Singh Makkar
said, "The Congress vice-president should now show courage to take strict action
against persons responsible for the slaughter of thousands of innocent people."

Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) head Manjit Singh GK said,
"Justice was stalled by Congress. Instead it rubbed salt on the wounds of Sikhs
by giving prime posts to accused leaders Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             818 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

Protecting installations: Capital to get new anti-riot force

LENGTH: 274  words


The interior ministry has decided to form an anti-riot force to counter sit-ins
and processions in the federal capital, it is learnt.

A source at the interior ministry said that the new force is to be set up to
secure key installations in the capital as the security of these sensitive
places is compromised when police are moved from these installations to counter
a sit-in or procession in Islamabad.

He said that the riot police would be called in to tackle various situations and
for a variety of different purposes, including controlling riots, dispersing or
controlling crowds, maintaining public order or protecting people or public
property.

The ministry is said to have given the go-ahead to the inspector general of
police (IGP) to take necessary measures to translate the concept of ant-riot
force into reality. He said that the force would consist of 2,000 policemen who
would be trained on modern lines at the police lines in Islamabad. He added that
police high-ups have already made arrangements to ensure training at the
earliest.

The riot police, he said, would be part of the regular police who could assume
the role of riot police in certain situations within the regular police force.

As many as 2,000 personnel would be taken from the current strength of the
Islamabad police and trained till the new contingent is recruited.

He added that the force would not create problem for the peaceful protesters but
would come into action if anyone tried to ransack public property. The anti-riot
police will also be given special equipment to help protect themselves against
any attack.

Published in The Express Tribune, December 5th, 2014.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             819 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                       May 27, 2001 Sunday, Home Edition

BOOKS: Skeleton in Atlanta's closet unearthed: Race riot of 1906

BYLINE: JIM AUCHMUTEY

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: @issue; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1407 words


At the dawn of the last century, a wave of bloody race riots swept the South.
One of the worst occurred in Atlanta. On the night of Sept. 22, 1906, mobs of
white men, whipped up by reports of black sexual assaults, started attacking
black people indiscriminately on the streets of downtown. Over the next four
days, at least a dozen Atlantans died in what many feared was the first battle
in an all-out race war.

The riot of 1906 is one of the biggest skeletons in this city's closet. Other
dark chapters from the past have been written about at length; the Leo Frank
case alone has generated more than a dozen books and plays. Yet no one has
devoted a book to the riot --- until now.

Mark Bauerlein, a 42-year-old English professor at Emory University, has written
a compelling narrative history, "Negrophobia: A Race Riot in Atlanta, 1906"
(Encounter Books, $25.95). The title refers to the unreasonable fear of black
people that fueled the racial violence of the time. The Washington native talked
about the riot and its legacy during an interview at his bungalow in Inman Park.
By coincidence, he lives just a couple of blocks from a house where two black
men were killed in a gunfight during the rampage.

Q: Why has the riot attracted relatively little attention outside of academic
circles?

A: The Atlanta public relations machine didn't want it to be part of the city's
history. It was bad for Atlanta's reputation.

Q: What was Atlanta like then?

A: It was a boomtown, like now. But it was much more industrial; the skyline was
full of smokestacks, and rail yards ran off in all directions. The city was
almost two-thirds white and saw itself as progressive. White people accepted the
black working class into their economy and were proud of the black colleges in
their city. The black middle class and intelligentsia thought this was the best
place in the entire country to be.

Q: So why did this violence erupt in a city that knew better?

A: There had been a wave of Negrophobia spreading across the South since the
1890s. It had to do with the transformation into a more industrialized economy,
the passing of the plantation world, the loss of regional identity. There was
also a social transformation in the black community, a new generation of
African-Americans who hadn't been raised in slavery. Whites found it
threatening. It opened the door to a lot of political demagoguery.

Q: What role did politics play?

A: The Georgia governor's race that year was one of the first campaigns in U.S.
history to play the race card so strongly. Hoke Smith (who won the election)
promised to disfranchise Negro voters. One of his favorite closing lines was:
"Either ballots now or bullets later" --- meaning that if you don't take away
black ballots now, you're going to have to store up bullets because there's
going to be a race war.

Q: The newspapers were constantly running stories about black "brutes" attacking
white women. Was the press exaggerating?

A: There was a slight increase in crime because of itinerants coming to Atlanta
for work. But I wouldn't call it a crime wave.

There were four white newspapers in the city, and they were all struggling for
subscriptions. Nothing sells like sex, race and violence. They wrote so much
about an epidemic of Negro crime that it built on itself. A black man walking
through the woods comes upon two white 15-year-olds. They look up and scream, he
runs away, and this is reported as a case of sexual assault. The girls have been
worked up to such a phobic pitch that they can't see the black man as anything
but dangerous.

Q: Once the riot started, did blacks fight back?

A: Yes. Many of the incidents during the later days of the riot were blacks
shooting at whites. David Howard, a black undertaker, had been smuggling guns
into the city in coffins for weeks (because of the rising racial tensions). John
Wesley Dobbs, Maynard Jackson's grandfather, had guns. A sheriff searched a
black man in East Point and found three or four guns on him; the man was lynched
that night.

Q: There's long been a suspicion that the official death toll was underreported
to protect the city's image. What did you find?

A: The official toll was 12 --- 10 blacks and two whites. I believe many more
were killed, but there's no way of knowing for sure. There were reports of more
whites dying. And blacks were rumored to be carrying their dead out of town and
burying them privately because they didn't want the white authorities handling
them. Based on eyewitness accounts not listed in the official reports, I'd
estimate that the number of blacks killed might have approached 50.

Q: You write of several well-known people who lived through the riot. Margaret
Mitchell, for instance.

A: She was 5 years old and overheard the adults talking about a race war. Her
father sent her to bed, but she couldn't sleep. Later that night, he turned
around and saw her standing there with a large sword, offering it to defend the
house. I wondered whether it was a Civil War sword.

Q: Joel Chandler Harris, who was at the peak of his "Uncle Remus" fame.

A: He sheltered some blacks in his house. Later, he tried to downplay what had
happened as much as any other prominent white Atlantan. When a friend wrote and
asked whether black people were being gunned down in Atlanta, he blamed it all
on Negro rapes and "the lower element of whites."

Q: Booker T. Washington.

A: I think the riot was the beginning of the downfall for his conciliatory
stance toward white people. It didn't ring true when there were blacks dying in
the streets.

Q: How about his political enemy, W.E.B. Du Bois, who was teaching at Atlanta
University?

A: He put his wife and daughter in a dormitory and sat on his front porch all
night with a loaded shotgun. Du Bois was so demoralized by the riot that he
hardly said anything about it in the months afterwards. He wrote a very bad poem
about it. But he wasn't involved in any protest and he didn't participate in any
of the post-riot efforts at reconciliation. When he moved away from Atlanta a
year later, he was seeking psychiatric help.

Q: What effect did the riot have on the black community?

A: It went into a long period of retrenchment. There were no organized protests
in Atlanta for the next 30 or 40 years. The riot totally silenced the more
radical element. Max Barber, a young black journalist, wrote an anonymous letter
to a New York newspaper and told the truth about the riot. He was discovered and
forced to leave town.

Q: Is there any sort of riot marker?

A: Not that I know of. There ought to be. At the least, there ought to be a
state historical marker on Marietta Street, across from the Henry Grady
monument, where the mob laid the bodies of several victims.

Q: A few years ago, the state of Florida compensated descendants of victims in
the Rosewood riot of 1923. Last year, a panel in Oklahoma recommended payments
in connection with the Tulsa riot of 1921. Would something like that be
appropriate here?

A: In those cases, there was state-sanctioned violence and property seizure.
That didn't happen here. Atlanta fired or reprimanded the police officers who
were accused of joining in the beatings or standing by. Civic leaders raised
money for the victims' families. The white community reached out to moderates in
the black community and gave them a voice in the post-riot discussions. Whites
visited black congregations and promised that this would never happen again in
Atlanta. It was a skillful effort at political reconciliation.

Q: Why does this story still matter?

A: When it comes to race relations in this country, everything --- no matter how
shameful or horrifying --- ought to be revealed. No more whitewashes. Tell the
truth, and let's have a full picture of our history.

Beyond that, the riot is a very important chapter in Atlanta's history. Racial
hysteria ruled the streets. Nothing like it had happened before, and nothing
like it has happened since.

The city's leadership learned a lesson in municipal survival. Three days into
the riot, there's this big meeting at City Hall called by the Chamber of
Commerce, and one of the leaders stands up and says: "Last week Atlanta could
have gone to any bank in New York and received untold millions in credit. Today
it couldn't get a penny." Atlanta learned that the financial cost of bad race
relations could be enormous.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
"When it comes to race relations in this country," Mark Bauerlien says,
"everything --- no matter how shameful or horrifying --- ought to be revealed."
/ Photo of Mark Bauerlien Photo:
A squad of militia troops gathers on Marietta Street in the days after the 1906
race riots. Five Points intersection is in the background. / Provided by MARK
BAUERLIEN Photo:
The deadly Atlanta race riot of 1906 made international headlines, as this cover
of a French magazine illustrates. / Atlanta History Center Graphic:
FIRST LOOK:
From "Negrophobia"
Another group of whites flows along Marietta Street in a fury, chanting, "Get
them! Get them all!" . . . In the center of the road stands a symbol of the New
South, the Henry Grady Monument, a ten-foot bronze figure perched on a pedestal
of Georgia granite. Opposite the federal offices a barbershop remains open,
where two black barbers attend to white customers. A barrage of bricks crashes
through the plate glass window. A dozen men vault inside and eye the barbers as
clients leap from their chairs. The two targets step away, one raising his hands
in a gesture of surrender. A brick catches him in the head, and he stumbles
backward. A volley of shots rings out and the two men are thrown against the
wall. Others jump forward and pump cartridges into the twisted forms. Ammunition
gone, they kick the bodies and tear at their clothes. . . . Lifting the victims
above their heads, the killers parade them in the street, half-naked, mutilated,
blood dripping from their wounds.

TYPE: Interview

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                             820 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday
                                National Edition

Rioters without a cause; The Prague Spring of 1968, this ain't

BYLINE: George Jonas, National Post

SECTION: ISSUES & IDEAS; George Jonas; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 852 words


Wars are instigated by the old, but engaged in mostly by the young. To get rid
of wars, it would be simplest to get rid of young people. Since that's
impractical - the young also fix sidewalks, do medical research, bag groceries,
and repopulate the country - wars are probably here to stay. So are war's little
cousins, rebellions and riots. They're entirely young people's domains, for
while some seniors go to war, they're too preoccupied with their dentures to
riot.

This is not, repeat not, to suggest that all manifestation of political violence
are equal, only that a youthful eruption is among their essential components.
While the Prague Spring of 1968 and the Montreal Madness of 2012 are as
different as day and night, violent disturbances share a common denominator in
being a young person's game. Riots, especially, tend to be over before old folk
can tie their shoelaces, let alone find their way downtown, where riots
traditionally occur.

Uptown riots are rare, because youngsters prefer to riot a safe distance from
their parents. In pacific democracies such as Canada, youthful rioters have more
to fear from their mothers than from the authorities. Once they make it safely
downtown, all they have to contend with is the riot police - bad news in
Damascus to be sure, but of no great moment in Montreal.

The Montreal student riots puzzle most Canadian adults because they're
"senseless." They certainly are, but this alone wouldn't puzzle graduates of
other "senseless" uprisings, such as Budapest, 1956. I was around back then, and
heard a kid ask an older man if his plan of luring a Russian tank into an alley
and dropping a Molotov-cocktail on it made any sense. "No," the older guy said,
"but it's making no sense in a good cause." Learning to be senseless in a good
cause was an important discovery. "This time the magic's in your guns," I wrote
for fellow freedom fighters, "and not in making sense." The poet William Blake
expressed the same idea 120 years earlier: "The tygers of wrath are wiser," he
wrote, "than the horses of instruction."

Making sense is a prime criterion when starting a business, and may play a part
in proposing marriage, but it's not a factor when carried by the harbour wave of
an undersea earthquake, a.k.a. tsunami, which is what riots are. The damage
tsunamis cause may range from zilch to zillions depending on where they make
landfall, but their youthful energy is a force of nature, and need not be
mediated by any sense at all.

I wouldn't ask: "What sense do the student riots make?" taking it for granted
they make none. They're nature's tax bill: The young of every generation who
have more energy than judgment - in our times, aggravated by diploma factories
educating students beyond their intellectual means, and flooding their limited
analytical and moral capacity with liberal infusions of quasi-Marxist sewage
until it overflows into terminal selfrighteousness. (Sample: "Those who don't
agree [with us] they are thinking only about themselves," says 17-year-old
Nicolas Quellet, as quoted by the National Post's Graeme Hamilton.)

But mindless as riots are once they're under way, rolling like a wave beneath
the surface, it's usually possible to discern the initial movement in the
Earth's crust that creates them, the tremor itself. The riots of the Arab Spring
from Cairo to Damascus (some spring!) were never a mystery; neither were the
demonstrations following the disputed 2009-10 elections in Tehran; or the 1992
Rodney King riots in Los Angeles; the events leading up to Budapest, 1956;
Prague, 1968; Beijing, 1989; and many others. But Montreal was a conundrum.
Where was the earthquake? If all that rioters can hope is to make no sense in a
good cause, it's nice to know what that cause may be.

So far, the answer is elusive. Everyone seems to agree, including the rioters,
that the ostensible cause, a hike in students' tuition fees, was never it. Past
this point, opinions diverge along predictable lines. Péquistes see a Phoenix
rising from the ashes, taking on the image of Charles "Le Grand" de Gaulle, with
the words "Québec Libré" streaming from his beak. Last weekend, former Parti
Québécois premier Jacques Parizeau, 81, emerged from the political wilderness,
talking about the fascinating sight of 200,000 Quebecers demonstrating "without
waving a single Canadian flag." If an octogenerian can sound like a kid with a
new toy, he did.

Next to the jolly mastodon of separatism came the extortionist panhandlers of
the anti-capitalist, antiglobalist, anti-colonial, Third Worldist,
eco-socialist, and Black Bloc anarchist infiltrators of Quebec's student unions,
claiming the keys of the city for a radical "coalition" that, never mind
administering Quebec, would be unlikely to agree on the time of the day or
manage a floating crap game.

Making sense? I don't think so. A good cause? A sick joke, more likely. It's
time for the government to advise students that to run urban streets they must
run for office first. Then our leaders should redeploy the armed forces from
building a nation in Afghanistan and try building one in Canada.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Olivier Jean, Reuters; Protesters march against tuition fee hikes
through the streets of Montreal last Saturday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             821 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                               November 13, 2014

Riot Police Deployed At Bhasikiti's Offices

LENGTH: 496 words


Over 30 riot police officers have been deployed to guard Masvingo Provincial
Affairs Minister Cde Kudakwashe Bhasikiti's offices at Benjamin Burombo
Government Complex, amid fears of impending demonstrations against him by war
veterans.

The police officers in full riot gear are now manning the entire Benjamin
Burombo complex, where Minister Bhasikiti's offices are housed, on a daily basis
from 8am to 4pm. Sources said the riot police were deployed to protect Minister
Bhasikiti in the event the war veterans try to stage a violent demonstration
against him.

Minister Bhasikiti yesterday said he did not know why the riot police were
deployed.

"I was also surprised to see the riot police here at Benjamin Burombo, but I
believe they are on high alert because of political developments that are
currently taking place," he said. "There is a lot of political activism that is
occurring these days and that might be the reason why the riot police is here."

Masvingo acting provincial police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Kudakwashe
Dhewa said he was not sure why the riot police were deployed.

"I will have to find out why they are there, but I think they will be just on a
routine patrol, remember there are quite a number of informal traders who
operate close to the complex, so those police officers in question might be on
patrol," he said.

Masvingo war veterans' provincial vice chairman Cde Charles Muchena confirmed
that war veterans in the province planned to demonstrate against Minister
Bhasikiti.

Cde Muchena said they had already applied for police permission to stage the
protests, adding that they will go ahead with the demonstrations even if they
failed to get clearance.

He said war veterans were not happy with the treatment given to illegal settlers
in Masvingo East after their homes were torched by police for invading
black-owned farms.

"We are not happy with the treatment given to families who were staying in some
farms in Masvingo East after their homes and property such as seed was torched
by police as they evicted them," said Cde Muchena. "We feel Minister Bhasikiti
as the head of Government in Masvingo is in charge of all security organisations
such as the police and we suspect the burning of those houses had his
blessings."

Cde Muchena said most of the 300 families who were evicted after the torching of
their homes were now paupers after they lost most of their personal possessions.

Government evicted the illegal settlers from more than 10 farms in Masvingo East
after an audit revealed that the farms in question were owned by black people.

Only settlers who occupied the farms before 2004 were given a lifeline after the
Masvingo provincial leadership led by Minister Bhasikiti resolved to resettle
them at Magudu Ranch in Chiredzi.

A few years ago, war veterans in Masvingo staged a sit in at the then provincial
governor Cde Titus Maluleke's offices at Benjamin Burombo Building and vowed to
stay put until their grievances were attended to.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             822 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             July 2, 2014 Wednesday
                               WED FINAL Edition

Disquiet over Riot

BYLINE: John Aguilar

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 637 words


BYERS A large crowd of people turned out Tuesday to voice their feelings about a
giant three day music festival featuring The Cure, Rise Against, Primus and The
Flaming Lips scheduled in September on a farm near Byers.

The future of Riot Fest in Colorado, held for the first time in the state last
year at May Farms near Byers, remains uncertain as Arapahoe County officials
wrestle with whether to allow the event to continue this year. No decision on
the event's future was made Tuesday evening.

The festival, which boasts a robust lineup of nationally known rock and punk
bands and attracted an estimated 15,000 ticketholders a day in 2013, is planned
for the weekend of Sept. 19 21.

Those who packed the American Legion Hall in this small, rural town 40 miles
east of Denver to address the Arapahoe County Board of Commissioners offered
split opinions about the benefits and problems of Riot Fest, although most
leaned against the event.

Charles Avery of Byers was one of several people who complained that the
festival caused traffic problems and resulted in open drug use among attendees.
He said the music at last year's Riot Fest was so loud he had to close his
windows.

"I don't want the traffic and the noise and the nasty things that are sold
there," Avery said. "Hold your riot someplace else, and let us Byers residents
live in peace and quiet."

Arnold Hollinsworth, a Byers resident, said traffic generated by the festival
kept locals from getting around town and going about their business.

"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that Highway 36 isn't going to
be able to handle the congestion from this," he said.

But others, many on the younger end of the age scale, said Riot Fest and events
like it are good for the struggling economies of small eastern plains
communities like Byers. Several people said Riot Fest had potential to help a
"dying" town.

Cari Olson said she attended Riot Fest last year and felt that many who oppose
the event aren't willing to accept a diverse crowd in town.

"I don't see anything wrong with me or people like me," she said.

Several commissioners mentioned that they had received e mails from residents
concerned about noise, hours and traffic problems from last year's Riot Fest.

"Have you looked into decibel levels?" Commissioner Nancy Sharpe asked Riot Fest
organizer Max Wagner.

Commissioner Rod Bockenfeld asked Wagner what he would do in the event of a mass
casualty incident that required significant medical response.

"How do we get these people triaged and into Denver when the only mechanism we
have is Flight for Life?" he asked.

Wagner said his event's emergency response plan is very thorough and can handle
the normal challenges of a large festival. He acknowledged that improvements can
be made from the 2013 event, which was marred by heavy rain and thunderstorms
and delayed musical acts into the early morning hours.

Wagner said Riot Fest plans to boost the local economy as much as it can, from
buying office supplies to fencing to water.

"The goal is spend as much money locally as we can," Wagner said. "Can we get it
in Byers? Can we get it in the county? It's basically a good neighbor attitude
we want to bring."

Wagner said he held an open house Monday to discuss some of the issues with the
community. He said he was willing to scale back the hours a bit so the festival
doesn't go so late.

The commissioners are considering two issues related to Riot Fest.

The first is a temporary use permit that the festival's producers need to hold
the event. The commissioners also are mulling whether to grant a use by special
review amendment allowing May Farms to expand its agritainment operations to an
additional 195 acres north of I 70 to accommodate large events like Riot Fest.

More than 17,000 tickets a day are expected to be sold to this year's Riot Fest.

LOAD-DATE: July 05, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             823 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Accused rioter held for breach of probation for assault and robbery

BYLINE: John Colebourn, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 289  words


A Coquitlam man charged with offences relating to the Stanley Cup riot will
remain in jail until at least Monday after breaching a prior probation.

Ryan Dickinson, 20, appeared in Vancouver Provincial Court on Thursday and was
held in custody over the weekend pending a bail hearing.

Dickinson, a sheet-metal apprentice, is charged with participating in a riot,
two counts of mischief over $5,000 and a breach of an undertaking. Those charges
were made public on Wednesday.

At the time of the June 15 riot, Dickinson was already dealing with an
aggravated assault and robbery charge from a 2010 incident.

In October, Dickinson was given a year's probation after the robbery charge was
dropped and he was convicted of assault.

In a Province interview after the riot charges were made public, Dickinson
admitted he was out past his court-ordered cur-few the night of the riot.

"I was just caught up in the moment and was very stupid," Dickinson said.

Dickinson said he knew there would be consequences for a breach of the probation
and admitted "these new charges are a real concern."

During the Stanley Cup riot a drunken mob flipped cars, lit them on fire,
smashed store windows and looted stores. The Vancouver Police Department has
been analyzing more than 1,500 hours of video footage they gathered from the
infamous night.

Police also announced on Wednesday that John Anthony Sawicki, 19, of Surrey is
charged with participating in a riot, mischief over $5,000 and two counts of
arson.

Twenty three of the first 27 people charged in riot- related incidents have
either turned themselves in or have been formally arrested.

A number of people up on riot charges begin their first appearances next
Wednesday and Thursday.

jcolebourn@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             824 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                              March 7, 2016 Monday

Clean chit to netas in Muzaffarnagar riots

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, March 7 -- The one member judicial commission headed by Justice (retd)
Vishnu Sahay, which probed into the worst ever communal riots in Muzaffarnagar
has given clean chit to the political leaders, while holding the then SSP of
Muzaffarnagar Subash Chandra Dube and the Intelligence Inspector responsible for
the 2013 riots which had claimed more than 68 lives and rendered over 50,000
people homeless.

The commission has given clean chit to the Akhilesh Yadav Government. The brief
of the commission was 'to ascertain facts regarding the communal riot in
Muzaffarnagar and the causes which led to the incidents in question.

The commission listing the 14 causes of riots has also held the print media and
social media responsible for the riots. Both the mediums carried unconfirmed,
unsubstantiated and exaggagarated inflammatory reports and also spread rumours
which snowballed into communal inferno.

The probe and the action taken report by the Samajwadi Party Government was
tabled in the State assembly on Sunday. The actual report of the commission is
of 700, pages. The commission also termed the local authorities as incompetence
leading to the riots but in later part of the report also praised for
controlling the riots.

The report said the transfer of the then district magistrate Surendra Singh and
SSP Manjil Saini on the day two when Jat youth Sachin and Gaurav were murdered
on August 27, 2013, enraged the Jat community which ultimately triggered the
communal riots. Commission said not 8 but 14 persons arrested in connection with
the murder of 2 Jat youth were let off.

They were neither named in the FIR nor were they suspects. But letting them off
by the police sent the message that the administration was partisan and was
working under the pressure of the muslim community. This caused deep resentment
in the Jat community.

The Government in its action taken report has ordered initiating of departmental
probe into the lapses of Subhash Chandra Dubey in the Muzaffarnagar riots. An
explanation has been called from the Intelligence Inspector Prabal Pratap Singh
over his role and lapses.

The Government has also sought explanation from the then District Magistrate
Kaushal Raj Sharma on two points-why he could not assess the crowd at the
mahapachayat and why no video recording was made of the inflammatory speeches
made by the political and religious leaders during the panchyat.

On the role of the BJP MLA Sangeet Som for allegedly uploading the inflammatory
video clip on YouTube, the Commission said, "FIR under Section 153 A , 120 B and
IT Act has already been lodged against Sangeet Som and 229 others, so no further
action can be taken against these persons as per the constitution."

Also as far as Muslim panchayat of August 30, 2013 is concerned a case against
politicians Kadir Rana, Noor Salim Rana, Rashid Siddique, Ehsan Qureshi and
others has been already registered and hence no further action can be taken.
Similarly on September 7, 2013, the Hindu Mahapanchayat was held. It has been
alleged that hate speeches were made but since no video recording was done hence
no one can be directly held responsible for hate speeches.

In most cases of the panchayat, local intelligence failed to estimate the
turnout of the people. The commission said that media's role in the riots that
spread to Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Baghpat, Saharanpur and Meerut was questionable
but no specific media organisation has been identified in the report.

The one member Sahay Commission had submitted its final report comprising of 700
pages and in six parts, in September last year to the State Government.

BJP MLA Sangeet Singh Som, who was booked under National Security Act (NSA)
along with another party MLA Suresh Rana for the riots, had already questioned
the probe report terming it as "biased report''and said it was a probe done by
the Samajwadi Party. "When we were not given an oppopurtunity by the Commission
to place before it our side of the story then how can it blame us for the riots
," he alleged while charging that it was a one-sided probe meant to save the
ruling party.

The one-man judicial commission was set up on September 9, 2013, 13 days after
the riots broke out, and it took over two years to submit its report after six
extensions. The commission cross-examined 377 people, including 100 senior
officials, during the course of inquiry.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             825 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      November 7, 2016 Monday 10:16 AM GMT

Bedford Prison riot: Up to 200 inmates overrun jail and film rampage on phones
in 6 hours of mayhem

BYLINE: Saphora Smith

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 468 words


Up to200 inmates caused mayhem for six hours at Bedford Prison last night,
celebrating their rampage by filming it on mobile phones.

The riot, which started at around 5pm on Sunday evening, saw inmates flood the
jail's gangways.

Mobile phone footage, believed to be of the riot, was later posted online.

It shows hordes of inmates out of their cells, jumping and shouting in the
gangway. Paper and furniture is also strewn on the floor.

Riot: Inmates at HMP Bedford(5Pillars)

The Prison Service said the disturbance was "successfully resolved" at around
11:30pm and they would be launching an investigation into the riot.

EXCLUSIVE VIDEO FOOTAGE from #HMPBedford prison riot. pic.twitter.com/Lu1aQqa1TY

- Dilly Hussain (@DillyHussain88) November 6, 2016

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association (POA) said
the images published online "appear to be authentic".

He said: "With everything else that has been going on at Bedford, it is hard to
believe that this is not from Bedford. It ties in with the issues that were
going on at Bedford.

"I think there were mobile phones at Bedford which are not allowed but, by the
same token, our prisons are awash with mobile phones and drugs which are not
allowed."

The Prison Service spokesman said: "Specially trained prison officers and staff
from the emergency services have successfully resolved an incident involving a
number of prisoners at HMP Bedford.

Video: The inmates appear to celebrate on camera (5Pillars)

"An investigation into this incident will take place. We are absolutely clear
that prisoners who behave in this way will be punished and could spend
significantly longer behind bars."

There were no injuries to prison staff but two inmates were treated for injuries
that were not thought to be serious.

Richard Fuller, MP for Bedford and Kempston, will put an "urgent question" to
Justice Secretary Liz Truss in Parliament today.

Prisoner riot: Police vehicles outside HMP Bedford (PA)

Specialist riot officers were deployed at the Category B prison in Bedford town
centre after the riot broke out on Sunday afternoon, with police cordoning off
an area outside and emergency services on stand-by.

Read more

Prisoner 'riot' breaks out at Bedford prison

Inmates go on six-hour rampage at Sussex prison

Man charged with murder after Pentonville prisoner stabbed to death

At around 11pm, about half an hour before the riot was brought under control,
there were reports of loud bangs or explosions coming from inside the prison.

In October inmates of Lewes Prison in East Sussexalso went on a rampage.

The disorder comes after the head of the POA Mike Rolfe last week warned British
jails had been engulfed by a "bloodbath".

Mr Gillan said: "The POA has been warning about this situation of violence in
our prisons - it would appear it's coming to fruition."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2016 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             826 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      November 7, 2016 Monday 10:16 AM GMT

Bedford Prison riot: Up to 200 inmates overrun jail and film rampage on phones
in six hours of mayhem

BYLINE: Saphora Smith

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 468 words


Up to200 inmates caused mayhem for six hours at Bedford Prison last night,
celebrating their rampage by filming it on mobile phones.

The riot, which started at around 5pm on Sunday evening, saw inmates flood the
jail's gangways.

Mobile phone footage, believed to be of the riot, was later posted online.

It shows hordes of inmates out of their cells, jumping and shouting in the
gangway. Paper and furniture is also strewn on the floor.

Riot: Inmates at HMP Bedford(5Pillars)

The Prison Service said the disturbance was "successfully resolved" at around
11:30pm and they would be launching an investigation into the riot.

EXCLUSIVE VIDEO FOOTAGE from #HMPBedford prison riot. pic.twitter.com/Lu1aQqa1TY

- Dilly Hussain (@DillyHussain88) November 6, 2016

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association (POA) said
the images published online "appear to be authentic".

He said: "With everything else that has been going on at Bedford, it is hard to
believe that this is not from Bedford. It ties in with the issues that were
going on at Bedford.

"I think there were mobile phones at Bedford which are not allowed but, by the
same token, our prisons are awash with mobile phones and drugs which are not
allowed."

The Prison Service spokesman said: "Specially trained prison officers and staff
from the emergency services have successfully resolved an incident involving a
number of prisoners at HMP Bedford.

Video: The inmates appear to celebrate on camera (5Pillars)

"An investigation into this incident will take place. We are absolutely clear
that prisoners who behave in this way will be punished and could spend
significantly longer behind bars."

There were no injuries to prison staff but two inmates were treated for injuries
that were not thought to be serious.

Richard Fuller, MP for Bedford and Kempston, will put an "urgent question" to
Justice Secretary Liz Truss in Parliament today.

Prisoner riot: Police vehicles outside HMP Bedford (PA)

Specialist riot officers were deployed at the Category B prison in Bedford town
centre after the riot broke out on Sunday afternoon, with police cordoning off
an area outside and emergency services on stand-by.

Read more

Prisoner 'riot' breaks out at Bedford prison

Inmates go on six-hour rampage at Sussex prison

Man charged with murder after Pentonville prisoner stabbed to death

At around 11pm, about half an hour before the riot was brought under control,
there were reports of loud bangs or explosions coming from inside the prison.

In October inmates of Lewes Prison in East Sussexalso went on a rampage.

The disorder comes after the head of the POA Mike Rolfe last week warned British
jails had been engulfed by a "bloodbath".

Mr Gillan said: "The POA has been warning about this situation of violence in
our prisons - it would appear it's coming to fruition."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2016 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             827 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Young Witness

                                January 1, 2015

Riots feature in new SBS series

BYLINE: Edwina Mason

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 373  words


You may recall the rather formidible yet learned character Peter FitzSimons
descending on the town last year.

For the two or so days he was in Young - distinguishable in either bush hat or
trademark red bandanna - he wandered streets, rural roads, museums, gullies and
even paddocks as part of his efforts to document the Lambing Flat Riots of 1861.

This all explodes in full living colour on television screens this Sunday night
when The Great Australian Race Riot premieres on SBS One at 8.30pm.

The first episode of the threepart documentary series chronicles the race riots
that characterised the early days of settlement in Australia, particularly
around the discovery of gold.

Here is where you gain terrific insight into the politics that triggered this
bloody event in our history - from the state's political epicentre in Sydney's
Macquarie Street to the steps of the local high school - the villains in the
plot are exposed.

Local historian Kim Johnson also features and gets to talk about how Young was
the wildest town in the world - and share his vast knowledge of the local
goldfields. A knowledge that has now moved south to Victoria with Kim and his
family.

Throughout the series, in his inimitable style, FitzSimons exposes heroes and
villains on a journey that spans more than 170 years, and the breadth of the
country.

Along the way, he demonstrates how mobs of every ethnicity have transformed our
nation.

FitzSimons sets out from the sands of Cronulla beach, site of Australia's most
notorious recent race riot, to quickly reveal that this riot was no aberration.

He visits original riot locations retracing both the social context and the path
each mob takes, be they Japanese, British, Timorese, Russians, Italians,
Yugoslav, Iranian, or Indigenous Australians.

Each time, FitzSimons reveals how Australia is left changed in the riot
aftermath ' sometimes for worse, but surprisingly often, with a new, more
tolerant identity.

In this shocking, heartfelt, and at times humorous journey, FtizSimons shows
that The Great Australian Race Riot is a consistently revealing window into who
we are ' and what kind of Australia we want to be.

We're not into promoting television programs but for the local relevance, this
is worth a look.

LOAD-DATE: January 02, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             828 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               TODAY (Singapore)

                            March 22, 2014 Saturday
                                  APM Edition

Police cannot rely on manuals to deal with riots, COI told

BYLINE: Amanda Lee

SECTION: HNP; Singapore; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 525 words



HIGHLIGHT: Doctrines should also not preclude use of innovative tactics when
dealing with riots, says ex-Police Commissioner


SINGAPORE - When it comes to dealing with riots, police officers cannot purely
rely on doctrines and manuals, and these should not preclude the innovative use
of strategies and tactics.

This was a point made by former Police Commissioner Khoo Boon Hui, who testified
at the Committee of Inquiry (COI) hearing yesterday.

Mr Khoo, who is Senior Deputy Secretary at the Ministry of Home Affairs,
outlined the police's experiences in dealing with riots since 1950s, such as the
Hock Lee bus riots, as well as his interaction with foreign police chiefs on the
topic when he was the Vice-President of Interpol for Asia between 2006 and 2008,
and subsequently the organisation's President between 2008 and 2012.

He noted that there are various challenges facing police officers during a riot
and no two riots are the same. In particular, the use of force during such
incidents has generated "a lot of controversy", said Mr Khoo.

He added: "My sense is that it must be commensurate with the level of public
order threat, fair and even-handed ... insufficient force or standing by can
embolden the crowd. At the same time, excessive force can inflame the situation
and raise ways to spread. So it's a dilemma."

He cited recent incidents overseas, including the death of a boy last week after
being in coma since June last year when he was hit by a tear gas canister during
a protest in Turkey.

Ultimately, police commanders should have three outcomes in their mind: Quell
the riot with minimum causalities, minimise the spill-over or an escalation and
instil public confidence in the police, said Mr Khoo.

COI Chairman G Pannir Selvam said he felt that officers at the scene of the
Little India riot on Dec 8 could have done more before the Special Operations
Command (SOC) troops arrived - a point that the committee had raised in past
hearings.

"Either you spook the rioter or the rioter spooks you, and it must never, if
possible, get into the second stage," he said. He added that there should be
training for first responders so that "they can do something and not simply say
that, 'I am not SOC, and therefore, I do nothing'."

The committee had heard some first responders said they would have been able to
do more to quell the riot if they had received more training.

COI member Tee Tua Ba, who was succeeded by Mr Khoo as Police Commissioner,
reiterated that training and equipping first responders should be looked into as
the initial response would determine how events unfold.

"We don't expect them to be trained to the level of the riot squad, but if you
take half an hour or one hour for the SOC to come and the situation escalates,
they must be able at least to work as a group," he said.

In response, Mr Khoo said the police will have to consider what Mr Tee and Mr
Selvam recommended.

Mr Selvam reiterated that the COI is "not a commission against the police". "We
are not merely investigating the police ... we are investigating a larger
incident ... it is our duty to investigate and find out whether there are any
lapses," he said.

"We are together in this against the rioters. It is us, you and we, against the
rioters and not we against you."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 MediaCorp Press Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             829 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            January 8, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Ex-beauty queen pleads guilty to role in riot; Participation in Stanley Cup riot
at 'low end of scale'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


A former beauty queen whose crowning as Miss Congeniality made her one of the
highest-profile suspects in Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot has pleaded guilty, and
her lawyer has suggested the woman's international notoriety has gone far beyond
what her case deserves.

Sophie Laboissonniere, who was 20 at the time of the June 2011 riot, was not in
court Monday, when her lawyer entered the plea on her behalf.

The Richmond resident was among the first batch of suspects charged after the
riot. Media reports quickly identified her as the winner of Miss Congeniality at
a local beauty pageant, sending her name and photo across the country and
farther afield.

She was charged with one count of participating in a riot and one count of
breaking and entering. She pleaded guilty to the riot charge, while the
break-and-enter charge will be stayed by the Crown once she is sentenced, said
her lawyer, David Baker.

The court has yet to hear what exactly Laboissonniere did as rioters torched
cars, smashed windows and looted stores around her. Those details will come out
at a sentencing hearing later this year, which she must attend, Baker said.

"I don't think it's appropriate for me to be commenting on the facts now, but I
can say this: compared to the vast majority of people charged here, her
participation in this riot was at the very low end of the scale," Baker told
reporters outside provincial court.

"She has received a level of notoriety that goes way beyond the offence she
committed. She's stuck with that for a long time."

When asked why Laboissonniere did not appear at the hearing, Baker said, "To
avoid this," as he faced a throng of reporters.

During Monday's brief court appearance, the Crown asked for a pre-sentence
report with a "psychological component." Neither the Crown nor Baker elaborated
on the reason for such a report.

The riot started in the dying minutes of Game 7 on June 15, 2011, as the
Vancouver Canucks lost the Stanley Cup to the Boston Bruins.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Vancouver Sun; Sophie Laboissonniere received  a high "level of
notoriety" for her role in the Stanley Cup riot,  her lawyer says.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             830 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

BYLINE: Sam Scott; Staff Writer

SECTION: Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 571 words


Downtown Wilmington is dotted with placards honoring the slightest brushes with
history. Yet amid the signs and statues there is virtually no recognition of one
of the city's most influential, and bleakest, chapters the 1898 Race Riot,
considered the only coup d'etat in American history.

That began to change Friday, as artist Ayokunle Odeleye installed his long
anticipated monument to the bloodshed at Davis and North Third streets. The 11
bronze paddles will reach 16 feet high with inlays representing the city's
history, including the riot and progress since.

Here are some answers to questions about the riot and the monument installed
Friday.

Q: What happened during the 1898 Race Riot?

A: The riot on Nov. 10, 1898, was an organized uprising led by some of
Wilmington's leading residents, who burned down the city's black newspaper,
overthrew its biracial board of aldermen and terrorized its black residents.

Q: What set off the riot?

A: Ostensibly, the white rage was in response to an editorial in the Wilmington
Daily Record, the black-owned newspaper. In August of 1898, the paper decried a
call to lynch blacks who raped white women, saying much of what was deemed rape
was actually consensual sex. Poor white women were no more particular about
"clandestine meetings" with black men than white men were with black women, the
editor wrote.

White papers reprinted the sexually charged editorial for months, churning up
rage. On Nov. 10, as many as 1,000 armed men attacked the paper's office,
destroying the printing press and burning the building before the mob set off to
other parts of town.

Q: Were there other reasons for the riot?

A: The 1890s were a politically unsteady time in North Carolina as Democrats
lost power to Republicans and Progressives. A 2006 state report found that the
overthrow of the city government was part of the Democrats' statewide campaign
of white supremacy and would have happened regardless of the editorial.

Q: What were the other effects of the riot?

A: The white mob left an unknown number of dead in its wake, with estimates in
the 2006 report ranging from 14 to 60. More than 2,100 people fled, including
many successful black residents. The leader of the riot became mayor, a clear
symbol of the outright victory.

The lack of federal response to the events gave tacit approval for white
supremacy across the South, helping herald in the Jim Crow era of segregation
and voting disenfranchisement.

Q: Why has it taken so long to memorialize the riot?

A: The events of 1898 were swept under the rug for generations. Only with the
publication of the book We Have Taken A City in 1984 did the facts get a popular
viewing that increased as the centennial approached in 1998, according to the
state report, which the General Assembly commissioned in 2000.

But the memorial has also been the victim of disagreements. Thomas Wright, the
former state representative who sponsored the legislation resulting in the state
report, opposed the chosen site, delaying fund-raising for years, said
Wilmington City Councilwoman Laura Padgett, co-chairwoman of the 1898 memorial
foundation.

Odeleye's design was picked in 2001. But now is a time to celebrate, Padgett
said.

"We are going to have a monument that is a major enhancement at a major gateway
to the city," she said. "This is a city that has faced its racial conflict and
has worked for reconciliation."

Sam Scott: 343-2370

sam.scott@starnewsonline.com

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             831 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday

Ex-official claims inquiry rejected to halt conflicts

BYLINE: Gary Cheung and Jeffie Lam

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CITY; nws lead news 01.pgl; Mong Kok Riot;
Pg.3

LENGTH: 618 words


The Hong Kong government rejected a call for an independent inquiry into the
Mong Kok riot because it was worried the process could open a Pandora's box and
fuel conflicts in society, a former top government adviser stated yesterday.

Lau Siu-kai, former head of the Central Policv Unit, said the Leung Chun-ying
administration was in a weak position and might not be able to manage the
situation were an inquiry into the mayhem launched.

His remarks came as Professor Stephen Chiu Wing-kai, a Chinese University of
Hong Kong sociologist, said the government was trying to affect public
perception by using the label "riot" to describe the unrest that erupted on the
night of February 8. He said the violence was not as serious as the riots of
1966 and 1967.

In the wake of the Star Ferry riots in 1966, the colonial government appointed a
commission of inquiry, chaired by then chief justice Michael Hogan, to look into
the causes of the disturbances.

The disturbance was triggered by a fare rise of five cents for the boat ride
between Central and Tsim Sha Tsui.

During that mayhem spanning April 5 to April 9, 1966, mobs threw stones at riot
police, looted shops and set fire to buses and various public facilities,
including fire stations.

A total of 1,465 persons was arrested, 905 of whom were charged with breach of
curfew and other offences.

The commission, which described the unrest as the "Kowloon disturbances" in its
report released in 1967, suggested that the evidence relating to the outbreak of
disturbances indicated a gap in perceptions between the government and the
people.

A larger-scale riot erupted the following year, with violence claiming 51 lives,
15 in bomb attacks. But the colonial government characterised the unrest as
"disturbances" and a "communist-initiated confrontation".

Chiu said what happened in Mong Kok last week was not as serious as the
disturbances in 1966 and 1967, nor was it as grave as the 2011 London riot in
which five people died and 202 were injured.

In the Mong Kok unrest, about 130 people, including 90 police officers, were
injured.

"I agree that the use of the label 'riot' carries a negative connotation and
certainly the government was trying to set the  tone of public discussion here,"
Chiu said. "The term 'disturbance" sounds more neutral" is the term the
professor said he used to describe the event.

Leung Chun-ying said yesterday the truth behind how and why the street violence
happened in Mong Kok last week would be revealed by a police investigation and
court hearings.

Leung's remarks came a day after the government officially rejected calls by
hundreds of academics and professionals for an independent committee to identify
the causes of the riot.

Lau, who serves as vice-chairman of the Chinese Association of Chinese and Macau
Studies, said the colonial government that launched an independent inquiry into
the disturbances in 1966 was able to bring the turbulent situation it faced
under control.

"Given the growing conflicts and polarisation in Hong Kong, an inquiry into the
Mong Kok riot would only create a new battleground," he said.

Chiu said an inquiry would direct public attention to deep-rooted conflicts in
society as the government felt it had made the correct verdict.

"In the eyes of the government, it would be a distraction that they won't want
to see," he added.

Basic Law Committee member Rao Geping stated it was in the city's "tradition" to
set up committees of inquiry after certain high-profile incidents.

"For the Mong Kok incident, it's necessary to probe the facts and prosecute
those who broke the law," he said.

Rao later clarified that he was not talking about the inquiry commission that
the government refused to appoint.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             832 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

Is Riot Fest dividing the community?

BYLINE: Leonor Vivanco, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 656 words


May 07--The questionable return of Riot Fest to Humboldt Park has polarized the
community with the local alderman unwaivering in his opposition and the festival
organizers launching a full-court press to bring the three-day music festival
back.

Riot Fest announced on Wednesday it has joined forces with the Puerto Rican
Festival and Parade Committee as "a strong and public sign of unity" to promote
Humboldt Park, host fundraisers for academic and sport scholarships and showcase
the Puerto Rican culture through a series of quarterly series of event including
performances.

The two entities, which have hosted events in Humboldt Park, are now "building a
cooperative platform where the true voice and tone of Humboldt Park is heard and
not stifled by officials who do not represent the needs and concerns of the
community," according to a joint statement.

Riot Fest touted its donations of more than $370,000 to not-for-profit
organizations since 2012 with the bulk going to charities in the 26th ward. The
festival also has been a sponsor of the Puerto Rican Festival and Parade.

"Our message is simply about cooperation, friendship and unity and certainly not
segregation or division," Riot Fest founder Michael Petryshyn said in the
statement. "Our festivals are important to this in different ways, but, in the
end, there is one principle that ties us all together: we love our community."

Ald. Roberto Maldonado (26th) remained opposed to the festival returning because
of the damage done to the park in the aftermath and disruption the festival
caused to other park users. He supported it the past three years because of the
economic benefit to the community.

Repairs to Humboldt Park continued this month after the event was held last
September during a rainy weekend and took up much of the park from North Avenue
to the north to Division Street to the south and California Avenue to the east
and Kedzie Avenue to the west.

All this has put the Chicago Park District in the middle.

"Overall, the alderman is adamant. He doesn't want this," Chicago Park District
CEO Michael Kelly said after a Chicago Loop Alliance event on parks.

It would be bad business for the park district to try to go around an alderman,
Kelly said.

"We're hoping the alderman and the community can work together to come up with a
solution," he said.

But Maldonado was doubtful.

"The people do not want it because it is massively disruptive for their
organized activities. And how can you accommodate this festival in that park
without the disruption that it takes days before, during and days after the
event?" Maldonado said outside of a City Council meeting on Wednesday.

"If there is any magic way they can both coexist simultaneously, that would be
one issue, but I don't think that is materially realistic."

Riot Fest is determined to stay in Humboldt Park asking supporters this week to
sign an online petition urging Maldonado and the park district to keep Riot Fest
in Humboldt Park and to issue permits for the event. Nearly 6,000 people have
signed it.

Riot Fest still needs to submit its permit application to the park district to
host the event in Humboldt Park, according to the park district. Riot Fest has
already sold presale tickets for a Sept. 11-13 festival.

While Riot Fest has said it wants to make Humboldt Park its permanent home,
neither the tickets nor the fest's website list Humboldt Park as the venue.

RedEye is a sponsor for this year's festival like last year.

If they don't work it out, where else could Riot Fest go?

Kelly said there are potential alternative park sites but would not list them.
He said Union Park where Pitchfork Music Festival is in July and North Coast
Music Festival in September wouldn't work because of its size. Union Park is not
big enough for Riot Fest's amusement park and carnival elements.

___ (c)2015 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150507-1RC-Is-Riot-Fest-dividing-the-community-0507-20150507

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2015


                             833 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Reading the riots - reaction

BYLINE: Paul Owenguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 2029 words

ABSTRACT

Paul Owen and Laura Oliver round up the reaction to the Guardian and London
School of Economics's unprecedented study into the August riots across England

FULL TEXT

2.33pm: Commenter REDLAN1 says the study could help prevent future riots:

I would be interested to read the authors' own critique - good studies consider
this area very carefully. There is no such thing as a perfect study - all
studies have inherent biases which create uncertainty. This point is not well
understood by the media, nor the general public, and it is worth stating again.
Science does not provide definite answers, what it does is to increase our
certainty of an answer being correct.

What I like about the study is that it is an attempt to understand the
motivations of the rioters by using their own words.

Really I can not see a better way of understanding, than asking the people who
were actually involved in it.

And it transpires that unlike the a-political mindless thuggery explanation from
out of touch politicians, there appear to be a diverse range of motivations.

Surely the aim is to prevent future riots of this nature, and this study
provides insights into how that aim might be achieved.

It is worth following Daniel Trilling, assistant editor at the New Statesman, on
Twitter for his tweets in response to the study. As @trillingual he writes:

Couple of thoughts, re "Anger with police fuelled summer riots" headline on
#readingtheriots

1. The anger may have been real, but was it justified - ie, is there systematic
mistreatment of young people by police...

... as opposed to high-profile cases which may be taken up more widely as a kind
of "police are evil" mythology

(I'm inclined to believe it was justified but would like to see some deeper
research, beyond stop and search stats)

2. As @brianwhelanhack points out, people can always give coherent explanations
for their actions with hindsight...

...for example would a study of white rioters in Burnley in 2001 have produced
the headline "Anger at Asian drug dealers fuelled riots"?

Anyway, those are my #readingtheriots thoughts for now. I may have more later -
stay on the edge of your collective seat, people.

Following more response to the research on Twitter using the hashtag
#ReadingtheRiots

2.13pm: Ed Miliband (left) has spoken out in response to the Guardian/LSE study.
The Labour leader said:

There can never be any excuse for the behaviour we saw in August. Of course
there are issues of policing that need to be looked at, issues of hope and
opportunity for young people, those things need to be looked at, but as I say, I
don't think there can ever be an excuse.

2.01pm: In the comments below, lightacandlesays the study is welcome, but
questions whether lessons will be learned to prevent disorder of this kind in
the UK in the near future:

it's a shame the authorities couldn't have done the same and actively search for
the real reasons behind the riots rather than make their own conclusions to fit
in with their ideological reasoning i.e. look for no reasons so they could
justify using the stick instead of the carrot as an answer.

Yes there will be faults found in the way the study was undertaken some of which
are pointed out by commenter's above but I believe the report is the best
account and synopsis of the riots and the reasons why they happened we have
simply because no one else has been bothered to try to do the same - so well
done Guardian and the LSE- a valuable excercize which I hope will now be
considered and acted upon by the government but all the signs are that this will
not be the case and sadly as many interviewed have already said - it looks like
nothing is going to change, conditions are going to worsen as the cuts bite in
even further, social problems will grow and we will be back here again next year
wondering why they are happening again.

The worst thing about it all is that even though we are now learning that one of
the problems that helped fuel the discontent was the hostility and frustration
felt towards treatment of those involved by the police we find the main response
is news that the number of riot police being trained is increasing and that the
police have been given the go ahead to use rubber bullets if they feel the need
arises. Not only that the justice system itself in using the stick even more
vehemently following the riots has done little to restore confidence or trust in
a police force or a justice system that many feel are not on their side anyway.

Lessons will be learnt? Sadly I think not. See you all here same time same place
next year to discuss the summer riots 2012 then. I just hope those of you who
feel that force rather than understanding is the answer will finally admit that
that is not the answer after all. Not only that as the discontent grows further
afield and across a broader range or society expect the numbers to grow too. The
poll tax riots all over again no doubt. Watch this space.

12.36pm: The National Centre for Social Research has blogged about its own
research into the summer's riots, which was commissioned by the Cabinet Office
and published a month ago, in the light of our new study. NatCen says the
Guardian and LSE project "appears to be uncovering very similar themes":

We'll all remember how shocking the unfolding scenes were back in August - with
sometimes tragic consequences. Our research brought to life how taken aback
those involved were too. Time and again, young people described the events as
madness: witnessing people behaving in unlikely ways; and unlikely people
getting involved in the first place. They had simply seen nothing like it ever
before, and what's more, no-one was stepping into stop it. For the young people
involved, some were motivated by the sheer thrill and excitement of such
extraordinary events; some by a one-off opportunity to acquire 'free stuff' with
apparent impunity; and for others, it was a chance to vent their anger at the
police, borne of long resentment.

Another striking finding was the theme of resentment towards the police among
young people. A desire to get back at the police for their attitude and
behaviour towards young people was a consistent message across all the areas we
interviewed in, including urban areas where there had been no rioting.

NatCen also shares its thoughts on why conducting research into events such as
August's disorder is so important:

For me, our research shows just how important research is in a well functioning
democracy. It was the first to hear from those involved in the riots. The new
research from LSE, the Guardian and JRF [Joseph Rowntree Foundation, which
co-funded the study with the Open Society Foundations] consolidates it.
Together, the body of evidence provides a chance to move beyond pre-existing
theories. It's a chance for the commentariat, opinion formers, and politicians
to listen to and reflect upon what those involved have to say about why and how
they got involved. It doesn't excuse what happened. But whatever your own
politics or perspective, it's hard to disagree with Nick Clegg's thoughts on
announcing the need for research that we need a 'thoughtful determination' to
understand what happened.

One of the researchers involved in the project, who blogs as lexvulgaris, has
blogged about the experience of setting up interviews with rioters for the
study:

Sometimes the person I was talking to was enthusiastic and wanted to tell me
about many things, seemingly happy to be listened to. At other times my
questions eventually coaxed them into confiding in me and my little recorder.
One night, I spent three hours talking to a group of young people demanding I
explain why they should talk to me, to us.

Questions ranged from "why should we help you?" to "what do you mean by
'involved' in the riots?" and "if I take part, can I get a scholarship to go
study at the LSE?". They expressed frustration at being asked to take part in
research projects and never getting anything in return, one of the many ways
they felt excluded from a system they were not given the keys to.

11.56am:We've compiled a Storify round-up of some of the reaction to the study
so far on Twitter.

_

11.44am: Here is some reaction from Brian Paddick, the Lib Dem candidate for
mayor of London and former deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan
police:

It is not surprising that those who felt there was nothing wrong with stealing
or damaging other people's property also feel animosity towards the police.

The police are the visible representation of law and order and when people feel
they have no stake in society and that there is no need to conform to its norms
and values, the police will be one focus for their anger and disappointment.

We must address the underlying issues that lead to such alienation, like
inequality, poor housing and unemployment. At the same time the police must
accept that many people feel they are over-policed and under-protected. The
police need to work a lot harder to convince some people that they are on the
same side as the communities they serve.

11.37am:The government's victims' panel examining the riots - which reported
last week - has responded to our study.

Darra Singh, the chair of the panel, said:

We welcome the findings of the Guardian and the LSE which mirror some of the
findings of our own interim report on the causes and motivations for the August
riots, which was published last week.

The Riots Communities and Victims Panel spoke with 20 people who rioted and
thousands of people in communities who knew rioters and witnessed the disorder.
Our remit was to reflect the views of communities and victims.

Through original research the panel also identified that between 13,000 and
15,000 people were actively involved in the disorder.

We identified that rioters' motivations included the perception that they could
loot without consequence, and for some - as the Guardian have also found - a
desire to attack the police.

The focus for the second phase of the Riots Panel's activity is to look more
closely at the underlying causes of rioting we identified including youth
unemployment, trust with the police, the role of brands and consumerism, values
and parenting.

As such we look forward to seeing more of the Guardian and LSE's findings.

9.38am: Today the Guardian and the London School of Economics have launched our
Reading the Riots project - the biggest study into the causes of the UK riots
conducted so far.

We interviewed 270 rioters about what lay behind the summer's disturbances in
London, Birmingham, Liverpool, Manchester, Salford and elsewhere.

Here my colleagues Paul Lewis, Matthew Taylor and James Ball, and the LSE's Tim
Newburn, explain the key findings - that widespread anger and frustration with
the way the police engage with communities was a significant factor behind the
rioting.

Raekha Prasad examines the issue of policing in detail here.

Guardian video and BBC Newsnight have made this gripping film about the
findings.

Here Paul Lewis tells the story of the riots from start to finish, drawing on
the testimonies of the rioters we interviewed

Here James Ball, Matthew Taylor and Tim Newburn explain what we have discovered
about who the rioters were.

And here Paul Lewis and Tim Newburn explain how the study was carried out and
why we chose to do it this way.

Every day we will be publishing profiles of rioters we interviewed. Here are
three from today:

[#xfffd] 'Looting was nothing personal. It's just business'

[#xfffd] 'I'm a bit of a troublemaker'

[#xfffd] 'This is some next-level revolution coming'

And every day we will be speaking to victims of the riots about what happened to
them and how they feel. Today Helen Clifton speaks to John Henn, whose
jeweller's in Wolverhampton was badly damaged during the riots.

Here is an animation showing how the rioters travelled from their homes to the
places where they rioted. Simon Rogers explains how that was created here.

Meet the whole research team here.

Paul Lewis was on BBC Radio 4's Today programme this morning explaining the
project and you can hear it here.

We will be rounding up all the comment and reaction to our study - the findings
of which we will continue to publish throughout the week - in this live blog
today.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             834 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Riot Act in line for shake-up

BYLINE: THOMAS MARTIN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 297 words


THE Government is to reform the Riot Damages Act in the wake of violence that
hit Liverpool and other cities in 2011.

The Home Office wants to update the Riot Damages Act (RDA) - which was written
in 1886 - to make it fit for the 21st century.

Read The proposals would improve and modernise the way that compensation is paid
to people and businesses who suffer loss or damage to their property caused by
riots.

Web blurb Thank It follows an independent review of the RDA by Neil Kinghan, who
was commissioned by the Government to assess whether the Act was fit for purpose
after major cities were affected by serious public disorder in the summer of
2011.

Merseyside Police Authority made a special grant application to the Government
to meet the bills for the street riots - estimated at £2.8m.

The claim was based on two separate costs - operational (police overtime pay,
etc) and those arising under the Riot Damages Act.

But the Government has acknowledged that the 1886 act needs updating in the
event of future riots.

The proposals unveiled by the Policing Minister Damian Green include: ? allowing
higher value settlements by providing "new for old" replacements for destroyed
or damaged goods; ? increasing the time limit in which people more can make
claims applications; ? ails you ? allowing people to submit claims
electronically, thereby speeding up and simplifying the process; ? including
compensation for damage to vehicles, which were previously not covered by the
Act.

The Home Office also proposes implementing a cap limiting the amount insurance
companies can reclaim from the Government. The changes will now be subject to a
consultation exercise so the public, police and business community can
contribute to how the Act is reformed.

Read more Web blurb details Thank you

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLASHBACK: The city riots in 2011

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             835 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan: Police learn techniques to fight back riots

LENGTH: 427  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Oct. 2 -- After a botched raid at the Minhajul Quran Secretariat on June
17, the capital city police authorities have initiated an anti-riot police unit
where 210 constables are being trained in multiple anti-riot skills.

The six-week course, initiated at Qila Gujjar Singh Police Lines last week, has
three parts -- PT parade, lectures on anti-riot techniques and psychology and
anti-riot demonstrations.

Officials told media the training modules had been designed by Superintendent of
Police (SP) Omer Saeed with the help of Pakistan Army, Elite Police and Chuhng
Police Training College.

They said a tear-gas cadre would learn how to use the gas to achieve desired
results and lessen damages.

Officials added trainees would also be taught about the usage of mega phones,
shields and fire rubber-bullets and how to strike batons on protesters besides
dealing with injured people and provide them first-aid.

Of the 210 constables, aged between 25 and 35, 120 have been taken from Police
Lines and 90 others from police stations. The batch has been divided into seven
platoons and the trained officials would remain in their unit for one year. They
said 190 constables would also get training at a later stage and help
authorities to spare 40 anti-riot police reserves for future needs.

A police source said the Model Town anti-encroachment operation on June 17 and
ensuing casualties and injuries of Pakistan Awami Tehrik protesters pushed
police authorities to raise such an independent cadre.

He said a majority of field police officers -- from station house officers to
divisional SPs -- lacked anti-riot policing skills. He said in the Model Town
clash police officers lacked an independent command, mutual coordination and
basic techniques of anti-riot.

Deputy Inspector General Dr Haider Ashraf said the establishment of the
specialised cadre as it was observed that in any law and order situation
policemen were unable to handle protesters mainly owing to the lack of training
and the absence of a specialised unit.

He said officials from police stations, police lines and reserves were usually
called out to handle law and order situations with anti-riot gears like batons,
anti-riot jackets, shields, helmets, shin guards and tear-gas apparatus.

He said the training would continue in the future and the trained cops would be
equipped with anti-riot bags

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             836 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday

1984 riots: HC prods Centre

SECTION: AHMEDABAD

LENGTH: 280 words


AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday asked the Union home ministry, the
state revenue department and Ahmedabad district collector seeking explanation
over the issue of compensation for damages sustained by the Sikh families during
the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

A division bench of acting Chief Justice Bhaskar Bhattacharya and Justice J B
Pardiwala has asked the concerned authorities to submit affidavits in this
regard within three weeks, said advocate Kishor Paul.

Paul filed a public interest litigation on behalf of Kalgidhar Sewak Jatha, a
Sikh organization, which has demanded compensation for 60 families in Ahmedabad.
According to the petitioner organization, in the anti-Sikh riots that broke out
following assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi, Properties of 60
Sikh families were damaged and destroyed in Raipur and Saraspur areas of the
city. FIRs were also lodged in connection with the riots.

The PIL further stated that the Centre had then announced a relief package for
the riots affected. Accordingly, the riot affected families from Ahmedabad had
sought the relief, but they were refused. They communicated with central and
state governments, but their requests were not heeded.

The petition also stated that the state government had gone to the extent of
claiming that no incident of rioting had taken place in Gujarat and no step was
taken to assess the damage caused during the riots. Petitioner's counsel also
contended that the riot affected in different states like Jammu & Kashmir,
Punjab and Haryana were duly compensated and the riot affected of Ahmedabad
should be given compensation on the same line.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             837 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

LENGTH: 433 words


TMOS2_P_30_A_21_insurance

.TXT

POLICE LIABLE FOR RIOT DAMAGE BILL

ROSS CLARK

More than a week on from the riots, it is still far from clear who ultimately
will pay to make good the damage, a bill which has been estimated by the
Association of British Insurers at 6100 million.

Notionally, homeowners have a good prospect of having claims covered. Most
domestic insurance policies provide cover for riot damage. Even if you do not
have insurance, you should be able to claim compensation: under the 1886 Riot
(Damages) Act, police forces are liable to pay compensation for riot damage to
property, even if the police were not at fault.

However, the 1886 Act requires claims to be lodged within 14 days of the event
occurring (which last week was extended by the Government to 42 days).

But many domestic insurance policies require homeowners to make claims to them
within seven days to pass on to the police. If you are on holiday and still
unaware that your home has been damaged, you could be in a tricky position.

There is a question, too, whether police forces will try to wriggle out of
claims. Police have campaigned for repeal of the 1886 Act ever since West
Yorkshire Police were forced to pay 6450,000 in compensation to property-owners
following the 2001 riots in Bradford.

The following year Bedfordshire Police declined to pay for damage to property
following a riot at the Yarl's Wood immigration removal centre. The private
owners of the centre won in the Court of Appeal. In 2002 the Commons Home
Affairs Committee demanded the Riot Damages Act be repealed, but it never was.

Under the Act, a riot is defined as a disturbance where '12 or more persons who
are present together use or threaten unlawful violence for a common purpose and
the conduct of them as such would cause a person of reasonable firmness present
to fear for his personal safety'.

So if your home fell victim to a flashpoint involving 11 or fewer rioters, your
force may have grounds for rejecting your claim.

The Metropolitan Police have put out a statement directing homeowners who wish
to make claims to fill out a form on www.directgov.uk. But a spokesman intimated
that the police will not necessarily take claims lying down: 'The police in
London never declared it a riot. We always used the term "disorder".'

If police forces do pay up, there is still the issue of who ultimately will foot
the bill. Coming at a time when police budgets are being cut, a bill for
repairing damaged property would be an unwelcome burden.

The perverse outcome of the riots could be fewer police officers on the streets
in the event of a repeat.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             838 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

Review: TEN OF THE BEST: Riots in literature

BYLINE: JM

SECTION: GUARDIAN REVIEW PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 584 words


Coriolanus by William Shakespeare

"Enter a company of mutinous Citizens with staves, clubs, and other weapons".
Coriolanus opens with the plebs rioting because of lack of food. Menenius
disarms them with some choice rhetoric, before Coriolanus stokes them up again
with his eloquent insults. "He that depends / Upon your favors swims with fins
of lead / And hews down oaks with rushes."

The Heart of Midlothian by Sir Walter Scott

"The mob of Edinburgh, when thoroughly excited, had been at all times one of the
fiercest which could be found in Europe." Scott's ripping yarn centres on the
Porteous riot in Edinburgh in 1736, named after the commander of the guard who
fired on a crowd witnessing an execution. When Captain Porteous is reprieved
from his death sentence, a mob lynches him.

Barnaby Rudge by Charles Dickens

"A Tale of the Riots of Eighty", as Dickens called it, is centred on the
anti-Catholic Gordon Riots of 1780. The novel's climax is the rioters' attack on
the newly built Newgate Prison, where some rioters are imprisoned. "And now the
strokes began to fall like hail upon the gate, and on the strong building . . ."
They burn it to the ground.

Shirley by Charlotte Bronte

Riots have become common in the north of England, as mill owners such as
Bronte's Robert Moore introduce machinery that threatens workers' livelihoods.
Shirley and Caroline Helstone witness an attack on Moore's mill. "The mill-yard,
the mill itself, was full of battle movement. There was scarcely any cessation
now of the discharge of firearms; and there was struggling, rushing, trampling,
and shouting between."

North and South by Elizabeth Gaskell

Another riot at t'mill. Margaret Hale has fallen for mill owner John Thornton,
decent but obstinate, and determined to stand up to disaffected workers. A crowd
of men "gaunt as wolves, and mad for prey" storms the factory. As they are about
to pelt Thornton with their clogs, Margaret pleads with the mob and saves the
boss's bacon.

A Sentimental Education by Gustave Flaubert

Frederic Moreau is idly walking the Paris streets when he sees a riot. "Men
endowed with a kind of frantic eloquence were engaged in haranguing the populace
at the street-corners, others were in the churches ringing the tocsin as loudly
as ever they could. Lead was cast for bullets, cartridges were rolled about."
Our foolish hero is ecstatic.

The Day of the Locust by Nathanael West

West's sour tale of a young man trying to make his way in depression-era
Hollywood ends with a riot at a film premiere. A California crowd made irascible
by their own disappointed dreams are ready for violence, and one small
altercation sets them off.

American Pastoral by Philip Roth

Riots figure largely in American fiction (Pynchon, DeLillo) but nowhere more
devastatingly than in Roth's tale of Seymour Levov's search for his bitterly
disaffected daughter. As he finds her, his home town of Newark is being
destroyed by race riots.

Absolute Beginners by Colin MacInnes

Written and set in 1958, MacInnes's novel is narrated by an unnamed teenage
photographer and spans the summer of that year. Near the end of the novel the
narrator witnesses the Notting Hill riots. To his horror, his friend The Wiz
joins the Teddy boys.

Brick Lane by Monica Ali

Trouble is brewing between Islamic militants and white fascists in Ali's East
End novel, which climaxes in a riot. Nazneen's stroppy, westernised daughter
Shahana has gone missing and her mother dodges police lines to find her. Soon
she is in the middle of the chaos.JM

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             839 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 14, 2007 Monday

Russian riot police holds exercise

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report by Russian Zvezda TV on 10 May

[Presenter] An open day in one of the Russian Interior Ministry's closest units,
a special-purpose police detachment. Riot police units were set up some 20 years
ago but they are still structures which speak little about themselves. Our
correspondent Aleksey Koshkin has spent a day with a special-purpose police
unit.

[Correspondent] Running upside down on the wall of a building from the fourth to
the first floor is as easy for an ordinary riot police officer as doing morning
exercises. Any special-purpose police officer must master at least the basic
skills of an mountaineer, sniper, bomb disposal expert and, of course, master
all known martial arts.

Some 20,000 people serve in Russia's special-purpose police units. There are 121
riot police units in the country. These units are regarded as the elite with
good reason. Firstly, the best officers serve there. Secondly, they are the most
mobile and best-equipped units.

Today, special equipment and weapons are like another pair of hands for riot
police officers. Therefore, they keep close watch on the appearance of all new
equipment, Russian-made, first of all. However, foreign weapons can also become
another pair of hands for our riot police in emergencies.

Today the riot police's capabilities are virtually limitless. For instance, this
helicopter can film a rebellious crowd at high altitude and send signals across
any distance. Vehicles equipped with water cannons and an integral part of riot
police units - Tigers - not tanks, but armoured vehicles [are also used in the
units]. People have already nicknamed them wheeled tigers, though. There is no
need to worry about public order with such hardware and excellently trained
personnel.

[Mikhail Sukhodolskiy, captioned as deputy interior minister] The results of the
riot police's work in all areas remain positive every year. Last year the
special-purpose police prevented over 12,500 crimes, arrested almost 14,000
criminals and released 181 hostages.

[Correspondent] It is difficult to imagine today's riot police without a sniffer
dog service. Dogs serve just like anyone else. They also receive extra training
with cats. Hence, not only people are important. It is thanks to the skills of
these irreplaceable fighters that a large number of crimes are being prevented,
including the clearance of remaining mine fields in Chechnya. Russian
special-purpose police units are still maintaining order there.

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 1830 gmt 10 May 07

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             840 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 14, 1986

Women may get riot control task / Metropolitan Police to train female officers
for riot duty on trial basis

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 368 words


The Metropolitan Police is to train women officers for riot duty on a trial
basis. If they are found suitable for dealing with violent street disturbances,
two PCWs will be drafted to each of Scotland Yard's 24 district support units.

The women will begin the evaluation training at the force's Public Order
Training centre at Hounslow, Middlesex, which was shown to the media yesterday.


Although some women officers joined district support units which deal with the
Tottenham riots last year, they had not received training at the Hounslow
centre.

'It has not been our policy to employ women in violent riots, but they have been
employed on district support units. We will begin training women, on an
experimental and evaluation basis in the spring,' said Commander Tony Speed, who
is in charge of public order training.

The move has won the backing of the Police Federation and Scotland Yard's equal
opportunities advisers. Some policewomen have complained that lack of riot
training experience has harmed their promotion prospects.

Women officers would be a useful addition to the DSUs, which are usually the
first to attend riots, because PCWs will be able to search women suspects.
Police claim that men trying to evade body searches get women to carry weapons
and missiles for them, because male officers cannot search women.

Some male officers, however, say they are concerned that women will not be
physically strong enough to deal with the sort of violence seen at Brixton and
Tottenham,and could end up hindering their colleagues.

The pounds 2 million training school at Hounslow opened in 1980. A similar one
at Greenwich was set up in 1982.

The need for police riot training became apparent in 1968, after an anti-Vietnam
demonstration in London. However, it was the severe violence faced by police at
the end of the Notting Hill carnival in 1976 which prompted a change in policy.
One night officers had to use dustbin lids and milk crates for protection.

Equipping the police for riot control has continued apace. Protective helmets
were quickly followed by riot shields. Police in mainland Britain now have baton
rounds (plastic bullets) and CS gas.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             841 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Have another riot', protesters urged

BYLINE: MEGAN LEVY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 394 words


PROTESTERS are gearing up for further riots outside Bob Jane T-Mart stores this
weekend after the cancellation of the Easternats drag racing meet, a court has
heard.

Facebook pages have been set up and messages posted on car websites encouraging
protesters to "have another riot" similar to the upheaval in Oakleigh last
month, the Melbourne Magistrates Court was told.

Police yesterday opposed bail for two teenagers â[#x20ac]" Aziz Elbayeh and Omar
Amr â[#x20ac]" who are accused of joining the Oakleigh riot on March 19, in
which about 100 police officers faced off against 2000 protesters.

The two men, both 19, from Springvale and Springvale South, have been charged
with inciting a riot, rioting, affray, burglary, theft and criminal damage over
the Oakleigh riot, which left a Bob Jane T-Mart store with a $50,000 damage
bill.

The bail hearing was told a crowd had gathered outside the store, on the corner
of Warrigal Road and Princes Highway, to protest against the cancellation of the
Easternats event, which was to be held at Calder Park this weekend.

Bob Jane was involved in trying to set up the Easternats event, but Bob Jane
T-Marts, a separate company in which Bob Jane remains a director, was never
involved in the event.

Constable Greer Goldsmith told the court that the protest was originally
peaceful but the atmosphere degenerated about 11.30pm.

She said Amr threw a lit flare that landed close to a police officer, after
which Amr and Elbayeh had walked through the crowd yelling "Let's start a riot!
Let's start a riot!".

Elbayeh, who is a semi-professional soccer player for the Southern Stars
Football Club, is accused of then smashing a store window with a chair while
both men allegedly stole tyres and tyre rims worth an estimated $5000.

Constable Goldsmith said that for five to six days before the riot messages had
appeared on Facebook and car websites publicising the protest.

She said there was no evidence to suggest Elbayeh and Amr were involved in
publicising the protest on Facebook, overturning a ute in front of the Bob Jane
store or injuring Fairfax photographer Wayne Hawkins, who was set upon by a mob
when he began taking photographs on the night.

The court heard both men, who were university students, were respectful to their
families.

Magistrate Fiona Stewart said the matters were "incredibly serious" and
adjourned the bail hearing to today.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             842 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday

Citizen Killed in London Riots, Blame African Leaders

BYLINE: Uduma Kalu

LENGTH: 1150  words


Nigerians living in London have blamed African leaders for the riots that has
rocked the United Kingdom since last Saturday.

According to them, the riots which were allegedly led by 99 percent blacks, was
a reaction to years of poor leadership in Africa and the harsh economic
realities in the United Kingdom also. British austerity measures have hit
low-income areas like Tottenham hard.

Theone week riots were fuelled by the killing of a black man, Mark Duggan, a
29-year-old father of four, fatally shot Thursday night last week in North
London's Tottenham Hale section.

Duggan, who was a passenger in a minicab at the time of the shooting, was
initially stopped as a part of an initiative to recover illegal guns in the
area.

Although an illegal firearm was found at the scene and initial reports suggested
a gun was fired at police, The Guardian of London asserts that ballistic reports
now show that all of the gunfire came from police.

After Duggan was shot, his family and the Tottenham community were in shock. A
peaceful protest was planned for Friday evening, and the family wanted to meet
with police officials to get answers about the shooting. However, police reps
refused to meet with them and the protests turned violent.

However, as the riots subside, Nigerians in England and at home are counting
their losses. Already, media reports say a Nigerian was killed in the riots. And
this was just days after Nigerian High Commissioner to the UK, Dr Dalhatu
Tafida, said there were no reason for Nigerians to fear following the on-going
riots in Hackney and Peckham areas of London.

Yet, the Ghana-Nigeria friendly in Watford, England was cancelled as London was
hit by four nights of rioting and looting, the worst in 25 years.

The UK police said it could not guarantee the safety of both players and fans as
the riots continued to spread across the country. As the riots spread, President
Goodluck Jonathan allegedly offered help to UK PM David Cameron. Jonathan was
said to have promised to assist by sending Nigerian police to England to help
quell the riots, to the chagrin of some Nigerians who think that he should stop
the Boko Haram bombing in the country first.

Nigerians in the UK speaking on the riots said, "So many Blacks are away from
their homelands, primarily because of present and past
administrators/rulers/presidents. Black nations have never thought it wise to
create conditions that will enable a majority of their citizens to find
self-actualizing opportunities in their own countries. The acting out and
destructive behaviour you see in the demonstrations is probably out of
frustrations of not finding oneself in a foreign land and the prospects of
achieving the same in the homeland is even more remote."

The riots spread throughout London and beyond. But there arose racial dimension
to the riots also as photos showed more of black people looting homes and shops.
However, houses, cars, and businesses were burned and at least hundreds of
people were arrested. Looters smashed their way into stores and stole
merchandise, and groups attacked police. Groups of young people who said they
were fed up by the treatment they receive by police, allegedly drove the riots.

It was in the midst of this that a young Nigerian man chatting with a woman at a
bus stop was shot dead when an argument erupted. Reports said Daniel Famakinwa,
20, was waiting with friends for a bus in West Norwood after a night out when a
row broke out with another group of young men. He was shot just after 4.15 on
Saturday morning. As other people fled, the woman Famakinwa had been talking to
stayed with him to try and help.

However, she left when police arrived and is one of several people murder squad
detectives are urging to come forward. The shooting took place in Waylett Place
at the junction with Norwood Road. Famakinwa from Manor Park in east London was
taken to King's College Hospital where he died over an hour later.

Detective Chief Inspector Caroline Goode said: "We know Daniel had been out
dancing that night with a group of friends and afterwards they were waiting for
a bus. There was an altercation between Daniel's group and another group of
black men who were also waiting at the bus stop which has resulted in Daniel
being killed.

"I would urge anyone who was in the area at the time, and who may have seen or
heard anything suspicious, to come forward as you may hold significant
information.

"We are specifically appealing for a white woman in a checked shirt who was also
at the bus stop, and who had no connection to either group, to come forward. She
understandably made off at the time but we need her to contact police - she may
have vital information.

"We also want to trace a young black woman who was speaking to Daniel
immediately prior to the shooting, and was present through the incident and
stayed behind to help. However she left before police arrived and again we need
to speak with her as a matter of urgency.

"I believe there were also a number of other black women at the bus stop who
fled after the incident, and again we need them to come foreword and make
themselves known."

Not many Nigerians have heard about the Famakinwa death. In fact, as the riots
raged, Nigerians were waiting to be blamed for the London crisis but were happy
that they were not named. A report said, "As members of mandem and hoodgirls
gangs and their parents lay waste to parts of North London over the weekend,
Nigerian communities braced themselves to be blamed for the rioting and looting.
But in an unexpected development, the London Metropolitan Police has not named
Nigerians as the main suspects behind the wanton display of criminality. Baba
Ijebu, a long time Tottenham resident, commented on the issue: "My son was
afraid to go to work today because he thought the newspapers will be full of
'Nigerians done it' stories, but for once we are not to blame. We thank God!"

However, President Jonathan was alleged to have offered to assist UK PM David
Cameron with policemen to quell the riots. David Cameron last Thursday told MPs
the riots in cities across England were "criminality pure and simple", but there
were "far too few police" on the streets. More than 1,500 arrests have been made
since the unrest began on Saturday.

Tottenham is the most ethnically diverse area in all of the U.K., where,
according to the last British census, some 300 languages are spoken. Large
communities of Colombians, Congolese, Albanian, Kurdish, Turkish-Cypriot,
Turkish, Somalis, Irish and Portuguese all call Tottenham home. And given the
area has the highest unemployment rates in the city - especially amongst the
young -- it's not surprising that rival ethnic gangs have staked out complicated
territories here and that youth mob vigilanteism is common.

So, it is perhaps unsurprising that Tottenham High Street became Ground Zero for
the riots that have swept across London this week.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             843 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    December 28, 1986, Sunday, Final Edition

Soviet Riot Instigators Sought;
Kazakhstan Court Demands Names Be Revealed

BYLINE: Gary Lee, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A30

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 27, 1986


The Kazakhstan Supreme Court has demanded that the names of "adult instigators"
and "persons who sold alcoholic beverages or drugs" be revealed in cases pending
on the court docket involving juvenile crime, according to an edition of the
newspaper Kazakhstan Pravda reaching Moscow today.

The court order came one week after vodka and narcotics were distributed during
riots in the Kazakhstan capital of Alma Ata involving local students, according
to Soviet witnesses of the two days of riots.

"It is necessary to observe strictly the law demanding that in all cases adult
instigators be revealed and also persons who sold alcoholic drinks or drugs to
underaged persons," the Dec. 24 edition of Kazakhstan Pravda said.

The riots, reported in the official Soviet media, broke out following the ouster
of a longtime Communist Party boss and his replacement with a political figure
from another region.

The court order did not specifically refer to the riots.

According to the official Soviet sources in Moscow, the riots involved several
hundred students and took place on Dec. 17 and 18. Dinmukhamed Kunaev was
retired on Dec. 16 after 22 years as Kazakhstan party boss and replaced by
Gennadi Kolbin, 59, a Russian from Siberia.

The riots turned violent Dec. 18 after vodka was distributed from trucks during
a demonstration, Soviet sources from Alma Ata told The Washington Post. A weak
variety of marijuana also was distributed, the sources said.

Students in Alma Ata stormed the Central Committee building Dec. 17 after party
officials replaced Kunaev with Kolbin, according to sources in Moscow. When the
students could not enter the building, they began to break windows, the sources
said.

Eventually, demonstrators burned cars and a local food shop and clashed with
police, the official news agency Tass reported Dec. 18.

Several civilians and militia were killed in the riots, according to reports
circulating in Alma Ata, and several party officials -- as well as students --
were arrested in the aftermath of the riots, the reports said.

The distribution of drugs and alcohol indicated that the riots may have been
started by disgruntled local officials, the sources said.

A council to fight crime, alcoholism and drug addiction was set up at the
Central Committee of Kazakhstan, Tass reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1986 The Washington Post


                             844 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MY STAG DO WAS A RIOT...;
Anarchy event blasted

BYLINE: NEIL MILLARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 160 words


A FIRM has caused fury by selling stag do revellers the chance to take part in a
RIOT.

Pals wear armour and wield batons and shields while fighting off staff hurling
PETROL BOMBS.

Wish.co.uk boasts: "Noise, fire, smoke and fear are the main ingredients. All
hell breaks loose. You'll come under a barrage of debris."

The firm insists that its stag event is a lesson covering famous cops and riots.

But outraged residents in Droitwich, Worcs, where the £79-a-head day is offered,
have complained - and urged MP Peter Luff to ban it.

Wish founder Richard Kershaw said: "We teach the basics of riot management and
offer an insight into the situations that police deal with." An online
disclaimer states: "We are not encouraging anyone to riot. Inciting a riot is a
criminal offence and people go to jail for jokes on Twitter/Facebook."

Droitwich is home to yob Johnny Melfah, 16, who used Facebook to try to incite a
riot during last year's unrest.

n.millard@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot idiots ... pic from site

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                             845 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MY STAG DO WAS A RIOT...;
Anarchy event blasted EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: NEIL MILLARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 160 words


A FIRM has caused fury by selling stag do revellers the chance to take part in a
RIOT.

Pals wear armour and wield batons and shields while fighting off staff hurling
PETROL BOMBS.

Wish.co.uk boasts: "Noise, fire, smoke and fear are the main ingredients. All
hell breaks loose. You'll come under a barrage of debris."

The firm insists that its stag event is a lesson covering famous cops and riots.

But outraged residents in Droitwich, Worcs, where the £79-a-head day is offered,
have complained - and urged MP Peter Luff to ban it.

Wish founder Richard Kershaw said: "We teach the basics of riot management and
offer an insight into the situations that police deal with." An online
disclaimer states: "We are not encouraging anyone to riot. Inciting a riot is a
criminal offence and people go to jail for jokes on Twitter/Facebook."

Droitwich is home to yob Johnny Melfah, 16, who used Facebook to try to incite a
riot during last year's unrest.

n.millard@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Riot idiots ... pic from site

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                             846 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 24, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Rioters from 44 countries among prison population

BYLINE: Mary Bowers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words


One in seven of those jailed for their part in the summer's riots were foreign
nationals from 44 countries, it emerged last night.

Of 865 rioters in prison a month after the August disorder, 112 were born as far
away as Cuba, Samoa and Vietnam. The largest proportion of inmates, 15 in total,
were Jamaican. Ten were Somalian, ten from Serbia and Montenegro, nine from
Poland and six each from Portugal and Nigeria.

Prisoners included in the statistics were those who had been jailed for
burglary, robbery, theft, criminal damage and disorder. All were arrested
between August 6, when the riots began in Tottenham, North London, and August 9.
The figures represent a snapshot of the rioters within the prison population on
September 9, one month after the riots had spread beyond London to Manchester,
Birmingham and Wolverhampton.

Of those jailed for robbery a quarter were foreign nationals, while one in ten
convicted for violent disorder, including possession of a knife or drugs, were
also foreign-born.

Overall, the proportion of foreignborn prisoners could be much higher as a
further 41 had their nationality unrecorded.

Figures from the UK Border Agency revealed that 367 "suspected foreign
nationals" had been referred by police for deportation for their alleged part in
the riots.

Across the UK police have arrested more than 4,000 people in connection with the
riots, with almost three quarters of those in London.

The Ministry of Justice said that the figures should be treated with caution.
"The figures show that on September 9, 13 per cent of those who were imprisoned
for offences related to the August riots were foreign nationals," said a
spokesman. "However, it is important to bear in mind that this is only a
snapshot of the prison population on that date. It includes remand prisoners and
excludes bailed suspects who had not been tried or convicted by that date. It
would be misleading to suggest that it provides a complete picture of those
involved in the riots."

Damian Green, the Immigration Minister, said: "Foreign nationals who were
convicted of offences during the riots will be returned home wherever possible."

367 "suspected foreign nationals referred for deportation after the riots
Source: UK Border Agency

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             847 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             El Paso Times (Texas)

                            January 3, 2008 Thursday

Another riot claims 2 Cereso inmates

BYLINE: Daniel Borunda / El Paso Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words


Two inmates were fatally shot and 17 others were injured when a riot erupted
Thursday night at the troubled Cereso prison.

Juárez police spokesman Jaime Torres said the riot began during a foiled escape
attempt by inmates trying to flee over the wall in the women's section of the
prison, which houses about 3,400 inmates, including 30 to 40 U.S. citizens.

The identities of the dead and injured were not immediately available.

The escape turned into a riot involving about 100 inmates, Torres said. The
prison was under control before 9 p.m. after about 500 local, state and federal
police officers were dispatched.

The riot was the latest in a string of bloody uprisings linked to an ongoing war
between the Aztecas and Mexicles gangs.

One inmate was slain in December and two were killed in November in brawls and
riots, in which inmates used make shift weapons, including homemade shotguns,
shanks, spears and wooden shields.

The previous riots left dozens injured. On one occasion, an inmate was
reportedly seen with an assault rifle that was taken from guards during a
previous riot.

The Aztecas and Mexicles have been battling for years in an attempt to gain
control of the drug trade in the prison. It was built about 30 years ago for
about 1,800 prisoners.

Aztecas have been reported to be the larger group but are facing rapid growth by
their rivals.

The Mexicles are believed to be recruiting heavily throughout Chihuahua state,
according to a presentation a member of CIPOL, a branch of the Chihuahua state
preventive police, made in November during a cross-border seminar on gangs.

The Mexicles had 60 identified members in 2004 but are expected to expand to
8,000 members this year, according to a Juárez police news release on the
seminar.

The Mexicles have cells in Juárez, Chihuahua City, Ojinaga and in 40 of the 60
cities in Chihuahua. Mexicles are identified with the "Hecho en Mexico" (Made in
Mexico) tattoo and the letters "PRM," for "Pura Raza Mexicana," roughly
translated.

Daniel Borunda may be reached at dborunda@elpasotimes.com; 546-6102.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2008 El Paso Times, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


                             848 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                              March 7, 2016 Monday

Clean chit for political leaders in Muzaffarnagar riots row

LENGTH: 758 words

DATELINE: Lucknow


Lucknow, March 7 -- The one member judicial commission headed by Justice (Retd)
Vishnu Sahay who probed into the worst ever communal riots in Muzaffarnagar has
given clean chit to the political leaders while holding the then SSP of
Muzaffarnagar Subash Chandra Dube and the intelligence inspector responsible for
the 2013 riots which had claimed more than 68 lives and rendered over 50,000
people homeless.

The commission has given clean chit to the Akhilesh Yadav government. The brief
of the commission was 'to ascertain facts regarding the communal riot in
Muzaffarnagar and the causes which led to the incidents in question.

The commission listing the 14 causes of riots has also held the print media and
social media responsible for the riots. Both the mediums carried unconfirmed,
unsubstantiated and exaggagarated inflammatory reports and also spread rumours
which snowballed into communal inferno.

The probe and the action taken report by the Samajwadi Party government was
tabled in the state assembly on Sunday. The actual report of the commission is
of 700, pages. The commission also termed the local authorities as incompetence
leading to the riots but in later part of the report also praised for
controlling the riots.

The report said the transfer of the then district magistrate Surendra Singh and
SSP Manjil Saini on the day two Jat youth Sachin and Gaurav were murdered on
August 27, 2013, enraged the Jat community which ultimately triggered the
communal riots. Commission said not 8 but 14 persons arrested in connection with
the murder of 2 Jat youth were let off.

They were neither named in the FIR nor were they suspects. But letting them off
by the police sent the message that the administration was partisan and was
working under the pressure of the muslim community. This caused deep resentment
in the Jat community.

The government in its action taken report has ordered initiating of departmental
probe into the lapses of Subhash Chandra Dubey in the Muzaffarnagar riots. An
explanation has been called from the Intelligence Inspector Prabal Pratap Singh
over his role and lapses.

The government has also sought explanation from the then District Magistrate
Kaushal Raj Sharma on two points-- why he could not assess the crowd at the
mahapachayat and why no video recording was made of the inflammatory speeches
made by the political and religious leaders during the panchyat.

On the role of the BJP MLA Sangeet Som for allegedly uploading the inflammatory
video clip on YouTube, the Commission said "FIR under Section 153 A , 120 B and
IT Act has already been lodged against Sangeet som and 229 other s so no further
action can be taken against these persons as per the constitution.

Also as far as Muslim panchayat of August 30, 2013 is concerned a case against
politicians Kadir Rana, Noor Salim Rana, Rashid Siddique, Ehsan Qureshi and
others has been already registered and hence no further action can be taken.
Similarly on September 7, 2013, the Hindu Mahapanchayat was held. It has been
alleged that hate speeches were made but since no video recording was done hence
no one can be directly held responsible for hate speeches.

In most cases of the panchayat local intelligence failed to estimate the turnout
of the people. The commission said that media role in the riots that spread to
Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Baghpat, Saharanpur and Meerut was questionable but no
specific media organisation has been identified in the report.

The one member Sahay Commission had submitted its final report comprising of 700
pages and in six parts, in September last year to the state government.

BJP MLA Sangeet Singh Som, who was booked under National Security Act (NSA)
along with another party MLA Suresh Rana for the riots, had already questioned
the probe report terming it as "biased report''and said it was a probe done by
the Samajwadi Party. "When we were not given an oppopurtunity by the Commission
to place before it our side of the story then how can it blame us for the riots
," he alleged while charging that it was a one-sided probe meant to save the
ruling party.

The one-man judicial commission was set up on September 9, 2013, 13 days after
the riots broke out, and it took over two years to submit its report after six
extensions. The commission cross-examined 377 people, including 100 senior
officials, during the course of inquiry.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             849 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              May 26, 2015 Tuesday

Tributes aside, leftists' instigating role in 1967 riots must not be
whitewashed;
Gary Cheung says the death of a ringleader of the riots exposes polarised views
even today

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion & Insight; Pg.13

LENGTH: 859 words


Lyrics from the Simon and Garfunkel classic,                The Sound of Silence
- "               People talking without speaking, People hearing without
listening" - may  well sum up the divided response to the death of Yeung Kwong,
the ringleader of the 1967 riots and veteran leader of the Federation of Trade
Unions.

Pro-Beijing newspapers heaped praise on Yeung's "contribution to the labour
movement" and people posted tribute messages like  "we will miss our fellow
fighter in the anti-British and anti-persecution struggle",  which FTU lawmaker
Alice Mak Mei-kuen  put up on her Facebook page.

Meanwhile, some internet users who are critical of the pro-Beijing camp posted
messages like "Yeung Kwong, you are  a murderer with blood on your hands" on
Facebook groups set up by like-minded people.

The polarised views of Yeung, who was director of the All-Circles
Anti-Persecution Struggle Committee  during the 1967 disturbances, underscore
the entrenched division between the leftist camp and mainstream society, long
after  the bombs and bloodied bodies have  been cleared from the streets.

Forty-eight years on,  the 1967 riots still polarise Hong Kong.  While the
leftist camp  boasted of their "righteous revolt" against the oppression by the
colonial government,  most people outside the camp highlighted the  killing of
Commercial Radio broadcaster Lam Bun  in August 1967  after he criticised the
rioters on his programme.

In their condolences, neither acting chief executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor
nor the FTU,  which Yeung  led from 1962 to 1988,  mentioned his role in the
leftist-inspired riots. Lam praised Yeung for his contributions to the labour
movement, reminiscent of the justification for awarding him the Grand Bauhinia
Medal, Hong Kong's highest honour,  in 2001.

The 1967 riots  were seen as a spillover from the Cultural Revolution, which Mao
Zedong  launched on the mainland a year earlier. While Yeung led the struggle
committee, the unrest was actually masterminded by the Hong Kong branch of
Xinhua News Agency - which served as Beijing's de facto embassy in Hong Kong at
the time. Yeung was chosen as the figurehead of the struggle committee largely
because of Beijing's preference for a leftist union leader  to highlight "the
leadership of the working class".

Having said that, Yeung should shoulder some  responsibility for the extremist
actions mounted under the name of the struggle committee. In a statement issued
in July 1967, the committee threw its weight behind the bombing campaign, saying
that the "anti-atrocities heroes" had adopted a "people's warfare" which had
"exhausted" the colonial government.

After the anti-British disturbances were quelled, most leftist  leaders remained
silent and even unrepentant about the excessive actions taken by some militants
in 1967. To date, Wong Kwok-kin  is the only FTU leader to have said sorry  for
the atrocities suffered by innocent people during the riots.

As someone who has spent nearly two decades studying the 1967 riots, I think it
is time to set the record straight on the fallacies put forward by the leftists
about the disturbances. They    have been arguing                that they were
moved to act by Hong Kong people's social discontent,   pointing to the lack of
labour rights protection and the plight of the underprivileged.

It is true that such social ills existed in the 1960s. Yet, when a 5-cent fare
rise for the ferry ride between Central and Tsim Sha Tsui triggered the Star
Ferry riots in 1966, the leftist camp had at first stood idly by. Editorials in
pro-Beijing newspapers even threw their weight behind the colonial government's
suppression of the disturbances.

The following year, however, after the Cultural Revolution had started, the
leftists used the labour dispute to launch an anti-British struggle.

Since the mid-1990s, the leftist camp  has also claimed that the riots sparked
the sweeping social reforms of the 1970s.  This is to downplay the social
background to the riots.

It is worth noting that there was already momentum within the colonial
government in the mid-1960s to initiate social reform. In early 1967, an
interdepartmental report  put forward an ambitious reform programme, including a
mandatory provident fund and social insurance to protect the labour force. But
the proposals were shelved because of opposition from the business community.

One of the unintended consequences of the riots was renewed momentum for social
reforms to improve working conditions, which helped overcome opposition from
business.  It is fair to say that the riots served as the catalyst for reform,
but were not the cause.

The riots claimed 51 lives, 15 in bomb attacks. But it is oversimplifying
matters, and unfair, to assume that these bomb attacks represented the whole
picture.  Among the 1,936 people convicted during the disturbances, only 118
were found guilty  of bombing-related offences.

Gary Cheung is the Post's political editor and author of Hong Kong's Watershed:
The 1967 Riots


     Most leftist leaders remained silent and  unrepentant about the
     excessive actions



LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             850 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

B.C. urged to pay $2-million tab;
Police expect probe to wind down at the end of June with charges recommended
against 300 people

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; STANLEY CUP RIOT; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 641 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson and Police Chief Jim Chu are asking the
province to dig deeper when it comes to financing the largest investigation of
its kind in Canadian history.

On Wednesday, the Vancouver Police Department for the first time disclosed the
cost of its investigation into last year's Stanley Cup riot. The department
said, as of June 30, that cost will be about $2-million.

Incremental costs, such as overtime and equipment, account for about
$1.55-million. Another $500,000 was spent erecting a forensic video lab.

The province has covered about $1-million of VPD's costs to date, the police
chief and mayor said. But they'd like it to chip in even more.

"There's $2-million extra that VPD has had to spend," the mayor, who is also
police board chair, said after a board meeting. "The province has come through
to cover half of that. We'd like to see that other half covered, at least."

Although the riot occurred in downtown Vancouver, Mr. Robertson said, people
from across the region were involved, so the province should pitch in more
funds. The mayor said neither he nor the police chief have heard from the
province on the matter over the past couple of weeks.

Inspector Les Yeo, the officer in charge of the integrated riot investigation
team, said an additional $7-million was marked as in-kind costs. However, he
described this as expenses, such as salaries, that would have been paid without
the riot investigation.

Of the $7-million, $5-million was from Vancouver police and $2-million from
other regional police departments who helped with the investigation.

The B.C. Ministry of Justice wrote in an e-mail that it committed to supporting
the riot investigation and gave a different amount. "We have contributed
approximately $2-million through contributions to VPD and by re-directing
provincial policing resources to support the investigation," the statement read.

The statement did not indicate how much of the $2-million went to VPD and how
much was classified as a redirecting of resources. A request for clarification
went unanswered.

The riot broke out after the hometown Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup
final last June. The damage has been pegged at around $3-million.

Chief Chu reiterated that he expects the riot investigation will result in the
largest number of charges in Canadian history connected to one incident. Police
have recommended 508 charges against 175 suspects. The Crown, which in B.C. must
approve those recommendations, has laid 225 charges against 85 people. Four
people have pleaded guilty.

Inspector Yeo also announced for the first time on Wednesday that the riot
investigation will start winding down at the end of June. The team has been
comprised of 50 to 70 people since the riot, including officers, civilian
support staff, and others.

Insp. Yeo said he expects charges will be recommended against 300 people by the
time the investigation team is disbanded. Last year, he said he expected charges
to be laid against 500 to 700 people and the investigation to take up to two
years.

"We will be able to ramp down the integrated riot investigation team, but
obviously, as in any case, we will have to hold some people back in order to do
disclosure, follow-up interviews, transcriptions, and get those packages to
court, and work with Crown counsel," he said.

He said rioters who haven't been charged by the end of June won't be off the
hook - some investigators will continue working on files after the team is
disbanded.

The message from Vancouver police when it came to releasing the cost of the riot
investigation was inconsistent. Insp. Yeo said last year the force was tracking
the figure and Chief Chu said in February it would be released.

A police spokesman later that month said the cost would not be disclosed until
the investigation wrapped up.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             851 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             El Paso Times (Texas)

                            December 11, 2015 Friday
                                   1 Edition

El Paso's Hope Riot finds her path, releases debut CD

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. T13

LENGTH: 502 words


For some people, finding a career and life path takes some searching. Myself, I
didn't settle on a journalism career until I was in my 30s, and I'm only now
accepting it.

But for others, life doesn't give them a choice. Some people are just born to do
something.

El Paso's 25-year-old singer-songwriter Hope Riot, whose real name is Hope
Wright, was practically born into the El Paso music scene. Her father, Rich
Wright, was the owner of gone-but-not-forgotten live music venues Wildhare's
Booze & Adventure and Cantina La Tuya.

In fact, I can remember being at shows in the late 1990s and early 2000s, either
as a performer or audience member, and thinking, "Who brought this little kid to
a punk show?"

"Touring bands have forever been a part of my life," Riot said. "When I was a
kid, there was always someone sleeping on our couch with a guitar. When I met
David Garza the first time I was six years old. I saw At the Drive-In in
elementary school."

Now, Riot is releasing her first album, "Lacuna," produced and co-written with
Garza at Tornillo's Sonic Ranch recording studio. Garza is an acclaimed
singer-songwriter from Austin.

"He's like my Mr. Miyagi," Riot said. "It was like taking college level
songwriting 101."

Riot and Garza enlisted other Sonic Ranch regulars, such as the Chamanas' Manny
Calderon and Pato Davila, who plays in Mexican singer-songwriter Ximena
Sariñana's band.

Riot herself has been hanging out at the studio since she was a teenager, when
her dad suggested she babysit for the studio's house engineer. Since then, she
has had the opportunity to meet and gain knowledge from the many American and
Mexican musicians, who record at the studio every year.

Last year, Riot toured the western United States for several months. Her strong,
husky voice bares a resemblance to Fiona Apple, and her use of guitar pedals,
live loops and noise. Riot is inspired in her music by her two biggest
influences, Nick Cave and PJ Harvey.

But, it wasn't until earlier this year, she said, that she finally decided to
take music seriously as a full-time career.

Riot said she had offers in the past from the likes of TV on the Radio's David
Sitek to record, but she wasn't ready to take the plunge and record her first
album.

"It was a mix of not knowing what else to do with myself and people telling me
to do it," that finally gave her the courage to accept the inevitable.

"I'm basically in the family business now," Riot said.

Dave Acosta may be reached at 546-6138; dacosta@elpasotimes.com; @AcostaDavidA
on Twitter.

Artist spotlight

Who:  Hope Riot

What: Debut release, "Lacuna," is out this week

Listen, purchase: Available digitally on iTunes, Amazon and CD Baby; CD
available at Red Door Vintage, 820 N. Mesa; Blackbird Cantina Deluxe, 533 W.
Franklin; Casa de Yoga, 2419 Stanton and other local retailers.

Online: Watch a video for Hope Riot's song "Juarez" on The Beat at
elpasotimes.com/blog/thebeat

Information: facebook.com/hoperiotmusic; twitter.com/hoperiotmusic;
hoperiotmusic.com

Up all Night

Dave ACOSTA

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: elp


                          Copyright 2015 El Paso Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             852 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                             July 8, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Kowalski savouring WWCFL title

BYLINE: Matthew Gourlie, Moose Jaw Times-Herald

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 616 words

DATELINE: MOOSE JAW


On Saturday, Aimee Kowalski and her Regina Riot teammates achieved a goal that
was five years in the making.

On Monday, Kowalski was back at work as a personal trainer.

Such is the glamorous life of one of the top female football players in Canada.
The Riot defeated the Edmonton Storm 53-6 in Winnipeg to claim their first
Western Women's Canadian Football League title. The bigger victory came a week
earlier when the Riot beat the arch-rival Saskatoon Valkyries 31-29 in the
Prairie Conference final at Mosaic Stadium. The Valkyries had won every league
title in its previous four years of existence.

"There's a core group of us that have worked pretty hard for this for five years
since the team started," said Kowalski, a Moose Jaw product who has been the
Riot's quarterback since the team's inaugural season.

In the league final, Kowalski threw for three first half touchdowns - including
one to her sister, fellow Vanier Collegiate alum Alex Kowalski - as the Riot
went ahead 30-0. Tailback Carmen Agar had 10 carries for 104 yards and two
touchdowns.

Kowalski said the title game in Winnipeg was a bit of an anticlimax, but the
Riot prepared well for the Storm and didn't take them lightly.

"We were confident, but we knew we had to put our best foot forward," she said.

The real drama had come a week earlier when they had beaten Saskatoon. Saskatoon
has only lost three games in its history and all three defeats were against the
Riot.

"The Valkyries are our rival and they're the team to beat," Kowalski said. "We
put a lot of effort to prepare for them."

The Valkyries had beaten the Riot in each of the four previous Prairie
Conference finals on their way to the title.

The Riot led 22-7 in the fourth quarter when Saskatoon mounted a furious
comeback and went ahead 29-27 with 1:26 left.

"When they scored that last touchdown you could hang your head and get
frustrated," Kowalski said. "It sounds cliché, but we knew we had a job to do at
that moment, and we went out and did it."

There weren't any inspirational speeches in the huddle - in fact, the Riot never
even used a huddle - and instead they unleashed their high-tempo offence to try
to regain their lead.

"Our offence is built for that situation and we were able to finish strong and
execute what we had been working on in every practice," said Kowalski, who
guided the Riot on a 60-yard drive that set up Morgan Turner's 13-yard,
game-winning field goal.

Now that Kowalski has won a WWCFL title, she is still highly motivated to
improve.

She was on the national team that finished second at the 2013 IFAF women's world
championship. She would love a chance to represent her country again when the
2017 IFAF worlds are held.

She is also enjoying getting to play with her sister, who is six years younger.

"The last three years is the first time we've actually been able to play sports
together," Kowalski noted. "We can always rely on each other. We're complete
opposites, but I can be honest with her and she can be honest with me."

Kowalski has a diverse and impressive athletic background. She went to Galveston
College in Texas to play fastball and then played soccer and ran track at Iowa
Wesleyan. The 28-year-old pivot said she wants to work hard this off-season to
get faster before age starts to catch up to her and she loses a step.

After reaching their lofty goal, motivation doesn't seem like it will be a
problem.

"Most of us are back next year," Kowalski said.

"From what I hear all of our coaches are coming back next year and that's pretty
important to me. The amount of work that I've seen them put in this season is
something I definitely want to keep playing for." !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Liam Richards, The Starphoenix Files; Aimee Kowalski quarterbacked the
Regina Riot to its firstever Western Women's Canadian Football League title.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Leader-Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             853 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             June 4, 2016 Saturday

Justice, incomplete

BYLINE: express news service

LENGTH: 503  words


With 24 persons convicted by a special designated court in the Gulberg Society
case, the total number of people held guilty in the 2002 Gujarat riots cases has
risen to over 140. In a country where communal riots have been frequent but
convictions of the perpetrators of violence very few, this is touted as an
advancement for the criminal justice system. Cases related to the 1984 anti-Sikh
killings in Delhi, the anti-Muslim riots in Hashimpura, Bhagalpur and Mumbai
have dragged on for years while convictions have been hard to get. However,
these cases date back to a pre-television era when reportage illustrated with
black-and-white photographs brought the news of killings into homes. Gujarat
2002 was the first communal riot to be beamed live into the nation's drawing
rooms. Justice for the Gujarat riots victims became a national cause, unlike the
riot cases from the 1980s, which retreated from public memory to anonymous
police files and court rooms.

But despite the attention, the pursuit of justice in Gujarat has been a tortuous
journey for the victims and their families. Like in the past, powerful interests
involved in the riots did attempt to subvert the criminal justice system. It
took a concerned Supreme Court to step in after frequent acquitals in the riot
cases in lower courts. The apex court took serious note of the complaints that
investigators and the lower judiciary were collaborating with the riot makers.
Unwilling to trust the local police, it constituted a special investigation team
(SIT) to further probe some of the cases and, in two instances, ordered fresh
trials. Besides the nine cases brought under the SIT, among them the Naroda
Patiya massacre where 97 Muslims were killed, and the Gulberg Society case in
which 69 Muslims including ex-Congress MP Ahsan Jafri were burnt alive at a
housing colony, the court also ordered trials in two cases to be conducted
outside the state in a bid to quarantine them from influence by politicians in
Gujarat. The apex court's intervention came as a relief and assurance to the
victims, but it was also a strong indictment of the criminal justice system in
Gujarat.

Judgements have been delivered in eight of the cases the SIT investigated and
many convictions have been secured. Yet, a sense of disappointment, if not
outrage, has prevailed among the victims and those who have stood with them. The
perception is that only the foot-soldiers have been punished while the
masterminds go free. In the Gulberg Society case, 36 of the accused were
acquitted and the court threw out charges of conspiracy. Anecdotal evidence and
past judicial commissions that probed riots elsewhere have produced evidence in
abundance, which revealed that riots are not mere spontaneous acts of violence
but often meticulously planned operations carried out by foot-soldiers of
political groups or parties. The masterminds remain in the shadows, and, mostly,
beyond the reach of law. The Gujarat cases too, unfortunately, do not seem to
beat this baneful pattern.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             854 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Charges laid in Vancouver riot; n B.C. gov't announces independent panel
investigation of riot

BYLINE: Postmedia News u

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 422  words


VANCOUVER - Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing that took place
during the June 15 Stanley Cup riot, Vancouver Police announced yesterday.

Charges have been recommended against another six people, ranging from mischief
and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the suspects
have previous criminal histories.

Also yesterday, Premier Christy Clark announced that an independent panel will
investigate the riot. It is to report to the province by Aug. 31 and its
findings will be made public.

Among other things, the panel will begin by looking at the Stanley Cup riot of
1994, the availability of liquor to the thousands who had gathered in the
streets to watch the final game and what needs to be done to avoid a repetition
of riots at future public events.

"Shameful acts like those seen around the world demand a tough, independent and
critical eye - and that's exactly what we expect this review to deliver," said
Solicitor General Shirley Bond in a statement. "It must look back, given the
events 17 years before and the many reviews that followed. And it must look
forward, to ensure Vancouver reclaims its place on the world stage as a vibrant,
safe city in which to celebrate, no matter the nature of the event or the size
of the crowd."

Burnaby, B.C., resident Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, has been charged with
aggravated assault after two men were stabbed. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle
Evans, 27, has been charged with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public
peace in the same incident.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young man
from Ladner, B.C., accused of vandalizing a pickup truck, a 19-year-old accused
of looting a purse from The Bay and a 17-year-old accused in trying to set a
police car ablaze.

The newly established Integrated Riot Investigation Team is working its way
through thousands of photographs and video images from the riot to identify
those who committed criminal acts.

Vancouver Police are urging those who were caught in the act to come forward and
turn themselves in. "If you come in voluntarily you can do so discreetly and at
a time that is convenient for you," police chief Jim Chu said yesterday. "If you
wait until we find you - and we will find you - we will arrest you in a public
manner suitable to the public crimes you have committed."

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said - that
anarchists and criminals started the trouble, while others without criminal
histories soon joined in.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             855 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     June 25, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Quebec riot not linked to Fete: premier: Revelers rampage

BYLINE: AARON DERFEL; THE GAZETTE; CP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 608 words


Premier Lucien Bouchard said he deplored an early-morning riot in Quebec City
that caused more than $ 500,000 in damages - but denied it had anything to do
with Fete Nationale fervor.

"I'm very saddened and surprised by what happened," Bouchard said of the
vandalism, which included about $ 200,000 in damages to the National Assembly
building. "Those are, as we all know, very sad events. But I think you have to
forget it. You have to turn the page today."

Six police officers were injured and more than 70 people arrested as about 2,000
revelers celebrating the holiday formerly known as St. Jean Baptiste Day spilled
from an outdoor concert on the Plains of Abraham into a nearby square early
yesterday.

The rioters - mostly young people - smashed windows, looted shops and tried to
set fire to the legislature building. "Of course, tomorrow we have to know more
about it to make sure that we know what happened and why, and to prevent those
kinds of incidents," Bouchard said in Montreal during the Fete Nationale parade.
"But as of today, it's a celebration of unity and I would like to think about
that."

Public Security Minister Robert Perreault said yesterday police responded with a
cool presence of mind in quelling the riot.

"Obviously, this was a very regrettable incident," Perreault said in Montreal
during the parade. "Usually, Quebecers know how to celebrate. We see in Montreal
today that everything is going well."

Last night, Perreault was to review a preliminary police report of the riot,
which started at about 12:30 a.m. in Carre d'Youville in the city's historic
quarter.

Some witnesses said police seemed slow to respond when a crowd vandalized the
legislature building, breaking nearly every first-floor window.

But Perreault praised police for not using pepper spray to subdue unruly
revelers. The Quebec City force was criticized last spring for using pepper
spray and tear gas during a May 4 riot involving up to 1,500 people.

"They told me that the Quebec police did not use pepper spray, which is just
great," Perreault said. "After looking at the police report, we're going to see
whether there are things that can be improved."

Perreault noted that after May's riot, which also broke out in Quebec City's old
quarter, police forces across the province formed a task group to seek ways to
better control similar mob violence.

About 240 municipal-police officers were deployed during yesterday's riot, which
lasted more than eight hours. Police said 80 stores had been looted or
vandalized.

"This was probably the worst riot in the city's history," said Sergeant Cantin
Celyne, a Quebec City police spokesman, while police Chief Normand Bergeron
described it as "clearly the biggest riot in the last 30 years."

Bergeron acknowledged that municipal police, who tried to control the mob using
tear gas and a water cannon, were eventually overwhelmed by the number and
violence of the rioters, and Quebec provincial police were called in as
reinforcements.

"People wanted to break everything in their path. We are really wondering what
is behind this kind of aggression," Bergeron said.

There was also a disturbance in Quebec City during last year's Fete Nationale
holiday, but on a much smaller scale. During the May 4 disorder, police clashed
with rioters for more than three hours and arrested 16 people.

Montreal Mayor Pierre Bourque said he was horrified by yesterday's violence.
"One always worries that something like this can happen here," Bourque said,
adding he agrees with Quebec City Mayor Jean-Paul l'Allier that rioting isn't
exclusive to the provincial capital.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CP / Quebec City riot police subdue a man during yesterday's
rampage outside the National Assembly building.

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             856 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                               May 1, 2015 Friday
                            All_but_Toronto Edition

Blame the rioters

BYLINE: Megan McArdle, Bloomberg News

SECTION: ISSUES &; IDEAS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 797 words


To understand what's happening in Baltimore, let's start from David Simon's
interview with the Marshall Project. A former Baltimore reporter and the creator
of The Wire, he says that the police there long ago abdicated any claim to
legitimate authority. Police powers are inherently prone to abuse, but we grant
them anyway because the power is necessary to protect the community from crime.
Simon argues that the Baltimore police stopped really pursuing that goal, so all
that was left was the abuses. In a majority-black city with a black mayor, these
dynamics do not neatly match assumptions about white oppressors and black
oppressed. But they do back up the perception that the government cares only
about the privileged, and will abuse you to benefit them.

Which is outrageous. You should be outraged. But you can be outraged, as I am,
and still oppose the riots, as I do. The voices that try to rationalize the
violence are presenting a dangerous false choice. They say that this was simply
the inevitable result of monumental injustice, so let's stop talking about the
riots and start talking about the injustice. We should always talk about
injustice, and strive to end it. The mass incarceration state, the erosion of
Fourth Amendment rights against unwarranted search and seizures and the vast
excesses of the drug war are perhaps the most important moral crisis facing the
United States today.

But we have to talk about the riots too, because they represent another urgent
moral crisis.

Rioting is not simply a battle of opportunity between oppressor and oppressed.
Saying that riots are the inevitable product of oppression turns out to be
saying too much and too little: Oppression does not usually lead to rioting, and
when rioting does happen, oppression is not always its target. Sports fans riot
- sometimes after a win, sometimes after a loss. Economically oppressed blacks
have rioted against the white power structure; so have whites, against their
city's black population. Some things, like ethnic diversity, seem to increase
the chance of riots, but the link to inequality and poverty is much less clear
than you'd think. Economically disadvantaged people and students seem much more
prone to rioting, but that may be because those people have much less to lose
from an arrest than middle-class people do.

Of course, rioting can fall on the continuum from flat-out immoral to justified.
I certainly sympathize with the grievances of the people who rioted following
the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. more than I do with soccer hooligans
or Tulsa lynch mobs. But regardless of justification, rioting is incredibly
destructive, mostly in the neighbourhoods where the rioters live. In my own
city, Washington, D.C., the major retail corridors that were destroyed in the
1968 riots have only really begun to recover in the last five years (and one of
them still hasn't).

Who suffered because of that?

The store owners, obviously, and their insurers. But the people who suffered
most grievously were the mostly black people who lived in those neighbourhoods.
The commercial craters left by the riots attracted crime, raised unemployment
and left the residents of the neighbourhood nowhere to buy the necessities of
life. People who had just started to get a toehold in home ownership saw the
value of their homes depressed for decades.

The public disorder of the 1960s also helped undermine exactly the sort of
public policy programs - a more rehabilitative criminal justice policy, greater
social spending - that the riots were supposed to prove the need for. As David
Frum wrote in How We Got Here, the United States hardened its attitudes between
1965 and 1974; law-and-order conservatism became the norm for American men and
women with all levels of education. What happened between 1965 and 1974 to
explain that? Widely televised riots are part of the answer.

Therein lies a tragic truth about rioting: It doesn't work. The left can try to
treat a crime wave as a call for social justice, but that voice will be drowned
out. The disorder will only fuel calls for order. Many residents understand
this: Civic leaders in Baltimore, and the family of Freddie Gray, the young
black man whose death in police custody triggered the riots, were out this week
calling for calm. Meanwhile, people sitting at computers many comfortable miles
away were declaring the riots legitimate.

The problems in Baltimore's policing are clear, and the city needs to begin the
hard work of fixing them. The problems of urban ghettos that send more kids to
prison than to college are also clear, though unfortunately harder to solve. But
solutions will not get easier if we embrace rioting as the voice of the
oppressed. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drew Angerer, Getty Images; A man pours lighter fluid on debris during
a riot in Baltimore on Monday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             857 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday

Police arrest No. 1 target in Stanley Cup riot

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON

SECTION: BRITISH COLUMBIA NEWS; CRIME; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Vancouver Police Department has recommended charges against 50 more people
accused of participating in last year's Stanley Cup riot, and arrested a man the
investigation team called its No. 1 target.

The department held a news conference at its Cambie Street headquarters
Wednesday to update its investigation into the city's second hockey riot in 17
years. Inspector Laurence Rankin, the riot investigation team's commander, said
charges have been laid against a 24-year-old Newfoundland man who was allegedly
involved in a 15-person assault on Robert Mackay. Mr. Mackay had tried to
prevent rioters from entering The Bay.

Jonathan Stephen Mahoney is charged with participating in a riot, assault,
assault with a weapon, and two counts of mischief.

Insp. Rankin said Mr. Mahoney was identified as the team's top target in the
days after the riot. However, Mr. Mahoney - who had been working in construction
in the Lower Mainland - had already left the province. He was tracked to
Manitoba, then Newfoundland, and eventually Lanigan, Sask.

He was arrested in Saskatchewan on Tuesday, where he had been working in a
potash mine, Insp. Rankin said.

The riot investigation team commander said he could not speculate whether Mr.
Mahoney had been actively fleeing police. "He did move a lot, and it leads one
to wonder if it was because he didn't want to be tracked down," he said.

Insp. Rankin said all 15 people allegedly involved in the assault on Mr. Mackay
have been arrested. Mr. Mackay - who was hailed as a hero after video of him
trying to stop the rioters was uploaded to YouTube - has praised the police for
their investigation and called for justice.

Insp. Rankin said Mr. Mackay was pleased when he learned of the most recent
arrest.

In British Columbia, police must forward their charge assessments to the Crown
for approval; the Crown then lays the charges. So far, charges have been
approved against 156 people accused of participating in the riot, which broke
out after the Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final to the
Boston Bruins. Seventy-three have entered guilty pleas and 13 have been
sentenced.

Among the people against whom charges were recently recommended is a 22-year-old
who was recognized by two Vancouver police officers he went to high school with,
and a 23-year-old who was recognized by an officer who had stopped him one week
before the riot for urinating in public.

In all, the department has recommended charges against 275 people accused of
participating in the riot, which left more than $3-million in damages.

The investigation team was initially composed of 50 to 70 people, including
officers, civilian support staff and others. It began winding down at the end of
June and now has 22 members.

Inspector Les Yeo, the team's previous leader, said last October that he
expected 500 to 700 people to be charged. He later said he misspoke, and in
April said he expected charges to be recommended against 300 people by the time
the riot investigation team was disbanded.

When asked whether Wednesday's batch of recommendations - the first since June -
would be the last, Insp. Rankin said no. He said the team would continue to
investigate and did not offer any hints on when it would disband.

"We're at 275 that we've recommended now. We're going to continue on," he said,
asking the public to send in more tips.

Vancouver police were much criticized for the pace of their investigation after
the riot. It was 41/4 months before the first batch of recommendations was sent
to the Crown.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             858 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

RIOTS 'CAUSED BY GREED OF A MINORITY'

BYLINE: Brett Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 481 words


RESIDENTS, community groups and business leaders attended a Birmingham forum
aimed at establishing the cause of the summer unrest in the city.

The independent Riots Communities and Victims Panel met at the Community Roots
building in Handsworth, near to the site of some of the disturbances during
August, and heard from prominent local figures about how the incidents had
affected Birmingham and how any repeat could be prevented.

The panel's Birmingham visit is one of a series across the UK. It will produce
an interim report on the riots later this month and publish its findings in full
to Prime Minister David Cameron next March.

Panel chairman Darra Singh, former chief executive of Jobcentre Plus, said he
wanted to understand the tragic impact of the riots.

He said: "I have found it extremely harrowing listening to the independent
stories of people whose livelihoods have been ripped away from them and in some
instances have suffered tragedy.

"It is important to spend some time to try to better understand why the riots
happened and whatw e can do to prevent the riots happening again."

He said the panel was talking directly to people who were affected in their
communities including young people, local business owners, parents and
residents.

Gurdeep Singh Bhogal, chairman of the Indian development Association, blamed
greed for the disturbances in Birmingham.

"That's the biggest motivation.

It was a small group of opportunists led by greed," he told the panel.

Many residents of Handsworth spoke anonymously to the panel.

A householder in Montague Road urged officials not to brand the disturbances as
"full blown riots".

He said: "There was world of differences between what happened in August and the
riots of 1985. There wasn't hundreds of people in the streets.

"Many people put in lots of hard work to ensure that the trouble died down after
the problems of the first night.

"The community took control to make sure it didn't get worse.

"There was a lot of tension but a lot a lot of talking from all parts of the
community calmed matters down," he added. "We did not want the trouble again
because it took us 20 years to recover from the last round of riots.

He also praised Lloyds TSB for reopening its Handsworth branch after it had been
badly damaged and looted during the disturbances. "We cannot afford to lose
these kind of resources in a place like Handsworth," he said.

Miles Wainwright, who organised a clean-up campaign in Birmingham, accused city
council chiefs of failing to display leadership and said disaffected youths
needed more role models from their families and society.

"What happened in Birmingham was very different to what happened in London and I
hope the panel realises this," he said.

However, many speakers accused the panel of failing to listen to the views of
younger people who were involved in the disturbances.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Panel: Darra Singh, Simon Marcus, Maeve Sherlock and Peter Latchford.
Talk and debate: Members of the public at the Riots, Communities and Victims
meeting at the Community Roots building on Soho Road, Handsworth.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             859 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Lessons from Singapore are relevant to Mong Kok riots

BYLINE: Ronald Ng

LENGTH: 748  words


There has been much penetrating feedback from Asia over Hong Kong's Chinese New
Year riot in Mong Kok, with most observers condemning the anti-government
rampage. Several friends of mine in Singapore who are National Service policemen
agreed that the policeman firing his pistol into the air to deter the crowd from
attacking his fallen comrade did the right thing. But some added that had the
incident happened in the US, they doubted whether police there would have had
the same self-restraint and not shot at the crowd. It was also shameful that
bricks were thrown at our policemen, plus rubbish bins and tires being burnt.

That said, let us now ask: Why has the conduct of some Hong Kong youths
deteriorated to this deplorable extent? Further, is there any way the constant
confrontation between the young people and police of Hong Kong could be
ameliorated?

Perhaps a few lessons could be learnt from Singapore.

Two riots remain firmly etched in the minds of older Singaporeans - the Maria
Hertogh riots of 1950 and the Hock Lee bus riots of 1955. Lee Kuan Yew was not
yet prime minister but it was what he observed during these riots that
germinated in his mind a number of important guiding policies when his
government came into power. From the Maria Hertogh riot he realized the
importance of religious and racial harmony, and that the republic's people had
to be sensitive to the religions and ethnicities of fellow citizens. The Hock
Lee bus riots planted in his mind the importance of citizens owning their own
homes. He observed that when fresh rioting began, people immediately rushed down
from their apartments onto the streets and brought their bicycles up to their
flats in order to protect them. This taught Lee the important lesson that people
will do everything to protect their own property. If a person owned a home, he
would protect it. If he had a mortgage, he would try to stay employed so as not
to lose his home. From these simple observations bloomed the Housing and
Development Board, which was responsible for building affordable housing for the
people. Consequently around 80 percent of Singapore's families now own their own
homes.

The principle is very simple. If I don't own anything, what do I have to lose?

In parenthesis, might I suggest a project for social scientists? Of the students
involved in the Mong Kok riot, how many university students were involved and
what was the breakdown in their faculties? If my theory is correct, I would
expect very few medical students, students in law, architecture, accountancy and
engineering were involved. All have very clear professional paths to follow, and
are fairly certain they have reasonable chance of getting employment with living
wages. This is a testable hypothesis.

Now to the second point. Some years ago a boy in Singapore was jailed and
ordered to be given three strokes of the cane for an offense for which he was
found guilty. (We are not going to discuss the ethics of using the cane as a
form of punishment here.) However, while in prison, he was given six strokes
instead of three. His family sued the government for compensation of S$1 million
($737,400) per extra stroke, totaling three S$3million. Clearly, the Prison
Authority was in the wrong, and for the government not to pay up as demanded
would set a precedent and arguably create an uproar over a serious injustice.
The case went to mediation and a confidential settlement was reached. All that
is known of that case now is that the family is satisfied, and has been
compensated, but no one knows the exact details.

Returning to Hong Kong's "Occupy" protests of September 2014, videos showing
alleged police brutality were seen. This incident must be addressed properly. On
the one hand, police officers who have served the government and people
conscientiously for years are implicated; on the other hand, members of the
public seem to have been treated unfairly. Could this issue be resolved by
mediation rather than by a court trial? As a mediator myself, I have learnt that
in a trial there are winners and losers, and often, even the winner could be a
loser in another sense, whereas in mediation one can strive for a win-win
solution.

Singapore now has a scheme where mediators are called in to settle some of the
lesser complaints previously dealt with by magistrates. This avoids lengthy
trials and legal costs. Hong Kong has a well established mediation body. Perhaps
they could be invited to help?

(HK Edition 03/18/2016 page11)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             860 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Lessons from Singapore are relevant to Mong Kok riots

BYLINE: Ronald Ng

LENGTH: 761  words


There has been much penetrating feedback from Asia over Hong Kong's Chinese New
Year riot in Mong Kok, with most observers condemning the anti-government
rampage. Several friends of mine in Singapore who are National Service policemen
agreed that the policeman firing his pistol into the air to deter the crowd from
attacking his fallen comrade did the right thing. But some added that had the
incident happened in the US, they doubted whether police there would have had
the same self-restraint and not shot at the crowd. It was also shameful that
bricks were thrown at our policemen, plus rubbish bins and tires being burnt.

That said, let us now ask: Why has the conduct of some Hong Kong youths
deteriorated to this deplorable extent? Further, is there any way the constant
confrontation between the young people and police of Hong Kong could be
ameliorated?

Perhaps a few lessons could be learnt from Singapore.

Two riots remain firmly etched in the minds of older Singaporeans - the Maria
Hertogh riots of 1950 and the Hock Lee bus riots of 1955. Lee Kuan Yew was not
yet prime minister but it was what he observed during these riots that
germinated in his mind a number of important guiding policies when his
government came into power. From the Maria Hertogh riot he realized the
importance of religious and racial harmony, and that the republic's people had
to be sensitive to the religions and ethnicities of fellow citizens. The Hock
Lee bus riots planted in his mind the importance of citizens owning their own
homes. He observed that when fresh rioting began, people immediately rushed down
from their apartments onto the streets and brought their bicycles up to their
flats in order to protect them. This taught Lee the important lesson that people
will do everything to protect their own property. If a person owned a home, he
would protect it. If he had a mortgage, he would try to stay employed so as not
to lose his home. From these simple observations bloomed the Housing and
Development Board, which was responsible for building affordable housing for the
people. Consequently around 80 percent of Singapore's families now own their own
homes.

The principle is very simple. If I don't own anything, what do I have to lose?

In parenthesis, might I suggest a project for social scientists? Of the students
involved in the Mong Kok riot, how many university students were involved and
what was the breakdown in their faculties? If my theory is correct, I would
expect very few medical students, students in law, architecture, accountancy and
engineering were involved. All have very clear professional paths to follow, and
are fairly certain they have reasonable chance of getting employment with living
wages. This is a testable hypothesis.

Now to the second point. Some years ago a boy in Singapore was jailed and
ordered to be given three strokes of the cane for an offense for which he was
found guilty. (We are not going to discuss the ethics of using the cane as a
form of punishment here.) However, while in prison, he was given six strokes
instead of three. His family sued the government for compensation of S$1 million
($737,400) per extra stroke, totaling three S$3million. Clearly, the Prison
Authority was in the wrong, and for the government not to pay up as demanded
would set a precedent and arguably create an uproar over a serious injustice.
The case went to mediation and a confidential settlement was reached. All that
is known of that case now is that the family is satisfied, and has been
compensated, but no one knows the exact details.

Returning to Hong Kong's "Occupy" protests of September 2014, videos showing
alleged police brutality were seen. This incident must be addressed properly. On
the one hand, police officers who have served the government and people
conscientiously for years are implicated; on the other hand, members of the
public seem to have been treated unfairly. Could this issue be resolved by
mediation rather than by a court trial? As a mediator myself, I have learnt that
in a trial there are winners and losers, and often, even the winner could be a
loser in another sense, whereas in mediation one can strive for a win-win
solution.

Singapore now has a scheme where mediators are called in to settle some of the
lesser complaints previously dealt with by magistrates. This avoids lengthy
trials and legal costs. Hong Kong has a well established mediation body. Perhaps
they could be invited to help?

(HK Edition 03/18/2016 page11)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1495/34/145828412626.jpg

00221917e13e185595ac10.jpg

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             861 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                              June 1, 2015 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Riot hand powerhouse Valkyries first home loss - ever

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 424 words


The Regina Riot registered a landmark victory on Saturday, defeating the host
Saskatoon Valkyries 49-9 in Western Women's Canadian Football League action.

It was the Valkyries' first-ever loss at home and only the second defeat in
franchise history. The Riot had previously defeated the Valkyries 15-7 on May
12, 2013 at Mosaic Stadium.

Saskatoon has won all four championships since the league's inception in 2011.

"It's always been our big goal, to beat the Valks,' Riot quarterback Aimee
Kowalski told Don Rice of the Star-Phoenix.

"We definitely did our homework for the last couple weeks. We worked hard in
practice over the last couple weeks and we were ready."

With the victory, the Riot avenged a 28-19 loss to the Valkyries at Mosaic
Stadium on May 17.

"I feel like the team did an amazing job,' Kowalski said. "We're just coming
together this year and couldn't ask for more from them."

Shawn McCall, the Riot's first-year head coach, underlined the importance of the
victory.

"It's great for our program,' McCall said. "We had a good game with them in
Regina and we really felt that we're a good team and that we could compete with
them. I think this gave our girls a lot of confidence."

The Riot got three touchdown passes from Kowalski, along with two scoring runs
from Carmen Agar and single TD runs by Carly Kentz and Sami Bray.

Alex Kowalski had two touchdown receptions for the Riot. Amanda Hungle had the
Riot's other touchdown catch.

The Riot scored 49 unanswered points after the Valkyries opened the scoring with
a 29-yard TD run by Samantha Matheson at 1:34 of the first quarter.

"It comes down to really the work ethic,' McCall said at the Saskatoon Minor
Football field.

"The girls are working so hard. They want this so bad. They've seen how
successful this program is up here (in Saskatoon) and they want to be a part of
that feeling about how it's fun to win. It's coming down to hard work."

The players' commitment is also part of the equation.

"It's special,' McCall said.

"These girls are amazing with the amount of dedication they have. They've got
families and everything going on in their lives, but they want to play football.
We have girls driving an hour and a half to Regina for practices.

"The dedication and the things their families are doing so these girls can play
football - probably that's the biggest thing. It's just inspiring. It just is
amazing.' The Riot carries a 2-1 record into Sunday's regularseason finale
against the host Winnipeg Nomads Wolfpack. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Liam Richards, The Starphoenix; Regina Riot runningback Carmen Agar
avoids a tackle from Saskatoon Valkyries defensive back-linebacker Amber
Buchholz in Western Women's Canadian Football League action on Saturday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Leader-Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             862 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    The State News (East Lansing, Michigan)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 7, 2008 Monday

EDITORIAL: Student riot pointless; hurts MSU's reputation

BYLINE: The State News, East Lansing, Mich.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 600 words


Apr. 7--As thousands of people gathered at Cedar Fest on Saturday night through
Sunday morning, the mood was distinct.

People were waiting for something to happen. Glass bottles, rocks and anything
else were thrown into the crowd and at helmet-clad police officers, who stood
vigilant nearby. About four fires were reportedly started in the area. Some
officers used intimidation and threats of arrest in order to control
participants.

As things started to get out of hand, people were asked to disperse. Munitions,
including smoke grenades, flash-bang grenades and stingball grenades were
employed to try and break up an unwilling crowd.

By about 2:15 a.m. Sunday -- when 13 rounds of tear gas were finally used -- it
officially became yet another riot at MSU.

MSU's reputation of partying, unruliness and debauchery -- including the March
27-28, 1999 and March 30, 2003 riots -- are a widely known and highly
romanticized part of Spartan lore. Anyone would be fascinated by the tales of
turned-over cars, massive property destruction and hostile police donning riot
gear. And especially for those who've only heard stories about the incidents at
MSU, being part of a riot crowd is portrayed as a quintessential part of the MSU
experience.

In fact, many students who weren't there to witness the events early Sunday
morning might feel a twinge of regret -- as if they missed something momentous.

But what happened Sunday wasn't glorious. Although no one "side" -- either
police or students -- conducted itself perfectly, it's clear many students and
nonstudents came to Cedar Fest wanting a tear gas-filled riot. They made it
happen and are now reveling in their bragging rights.

Although the tear gas has settled, the fallout will last for years.

Students who attended Cedar Fest will glorify that night as one of their best
college memories. It will be toted as a badge of honor. Yet here in East
Lansing, a very different kind of mark will be left behind: The university will
be credited for another riot and tensions between students and the East Lansing
community will grow.

There's no doubt this riot will be incentive for local government officials and
permanent residents to further shun students. Redevelopment projects planned for
the near-campus area, which would create more expensive housing students might
not be able to afford, will probably receive much more support -- especially the
East Village project that would redevelop the Cedar Village area, the site of
Cedar Fest.

It goes without saying that not everyone involved was at fault. There were many
innocent bystanders passing by, observing or watching from nearby buildings who
were exposed to tear gas, as well. And out of the 52 arrests, only 28 were
identified as MSU students, according to an East Lansing Police Department press
release. Out of the 48 tickets issued that night, only 24 were given to MSU
students.

But everyone in the MSU community will be judged for this riot along with past
incidents. People who look at what transgressed in East Lansing won't
differentiate between only a few "bad apples" and the rest of the MSU students.
They might assume it's just a Spartan thing to do.

To see more of The State News, which covers the Michigan State University
community, go to http://www.statenews.com./ Copyright (c) 2008, The State News,
East Lansing, Mich. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080407-3MS-EDITORIAL-Student-riot
-pointless-hurts-MSU-s-reputation-0407

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 3MS


                                 Copyright 2008


                             863 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                            September 2, 2016 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Kids jail rampage;
 Stun grenades used to end rampage

SECTION: MAI; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 354  words


Stun grenades and pepper spray were used to end a riot at Banksia Hill Detention
Centre yesterday after detainees smashed windows and ripped doors from cupboards
to use as weapons.

It was the second riot at the centre in four days.

Special Operations Group officers were used to end both riots.

The Community and Public Sector Union released a statement saying the riots had
caused about $250,000 damage.

It said staff believed yesterday's riot was planned and wanted harsher penalties
for disruptive behaviour.

The centre was in lockdown from 12.55pm to 2.30pm, the union said.

Four detainees, aged 17 and 18, barricaded themselves in D-Wing in Urquhart Unit
using a table tennis table and chairs.

They ripped doors from cupboards, an oven and a fridge and used them as
improvised weapons.

"There were no significant injuries during the incident but there has been major
property damage," the union said.

"All windows in the unit have been smashed, cupboards pulled off the hinges, and
the fridge and oven doors pulled off.

"The detainees used these items as projectiles against staff. The damage is
estimated at $150,000 and the wing is now uninhabitable."

A Department of Correctives Services spokesman confirmed the youths had
barricaded themselves inside a wing and sourced "makeshift weapons".

He said they also had access to hot water which could have been used against
staff or themselves.

Officers used a one-second burst of pepper spray and "pyrotechnic distraction
devices" to quell the riot, he said.

The riot followed a similar incident in Harding Wing on Monday when three other
detainees caused about $100,000 damage, according to the union.

Police are investigating.

Security at the Canning Vale centre - the State's only juvenile detention centre
- was increased after a riot in January 2013 when more than 100 cells were
trashed.

The riot cost the State Government about $3.6m.

Police officers, a canine unit and the police helicopter were called in to
restore order.

In the wake of the 2013 riot, the centre's male detainees were transferred to
Hakea Prison.

Thirty juveniles and five adults were charged with criminal damage.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             864 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                              July 15, 2016 Friday
                              FRI REGIONAL Edition

Should Denver police wear riot gear while monitoring protests?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 317 words


Re: "Union wrong on police riot gear," July 13 editorial.

Your editorial excoriating the Denver Police union for wanting to wear riot gear
at protests seems to be lacking in logic.

First you tell us they don't need this gear as it might appear intimidating to
the public. Then in the next breath you defend the practice when you say, "Of
course there are protests in which police need riot gear to protect them. More
than 20 officers in St. Paul, Minn. were injured last weekend by rocks, bottles,
and other objects thrown by protesters ... ." What you seem to be saying is wait
until the police are attacked and officers injured, and then and only then strap
on the riot gear.

Sounds like the old "shut the barn door after the horses got out" story. Not too
much comfort for the policeman or woman who gets injured, maimed or killed, or
their families either.

Michael R. Hudson, Pueblo

* * *

The Denver Post is absolutely correct regarding riot gear and protests.
Protests, guaranteed by the Constitution, are largely planned to be peaceful,
particularly those protests that are planned and known by police. The easy
answer is to watch the numerous videos of the protests at Baton Rouge riot
geared police vs. Dallas, no riot gear. The results recorded at Baton Rouge show
police aggressively charging unarmed protesters, and numerous arrests. The
results in Dallas were quite different: protester police photos and peaceful
marches.

Michael Lutz, Parker

* * *

Your editorial was way off base. It contained the words "riot gear" eight times
and "protective gear" the proper name only once. Regardless of what anyone
believes, the police are entitled to wear whatever they require to add to their
safety.

Further, I read the letter that Nick Rogers, president of the Denver Police
Protective Association, wrote to the mayor. I did not read anything that was
"truculent," as your editorial stated.

Joe Power, Denver

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             865 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 April 10, 2014

Muzaffarnagar riots loom large over UP first phase

BYLINE: RATAN MANI LAL

LENGTH: 471  words


Lucknow: The shadow of riots in Muzaffarnagar looms large over the ten
constituencies which go to polls on Thursday (April 10) in the first phase of
Lok Sabha election in Uttar Pradesh.



Among the star candidates are actors Raj Babbar, Jaya Prada, Nagma, former army
chief VK Singh, Union minister Ajit Singh, Muzaffarnagar riot accused Kadir
Rana, hate speech accused Imran Masood and former TV presenter Shazia Ilmi.

The entire region in western UP bordering NCR, Uttaranchal and Haryana is
considered sensitive in view of the simmering communal tension in Muzaffarnagar
and adjoining areas.

The Samajwadi Party government's handling of the riots and its aftermath,
including relief and rehabilitation of the riot victims, belonging to both Hindu
and Muslim communities, has come under fire from all quarters, including the
Supreme Court.

SP boss Mulayam Singh Yadav recently visited Muzaffarnagar for the first time
after the riots and blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party for the communal divide in
the area.

Surveys and non-government studies suggest that there is great bitterness among
Muslims and Jats of the area against the SP; while the Muslims may get swayed
towards the Bahujan Samaj Party, the BJP too is likely to reap electoral
benefits in some constituencies.

Amit Shah had been handpicked by Narendra Modi to tour the area extensively and
spread the word that the BJP is behind Jats who were aggrieved over the SP
government's allegedly onesided action in cases related to the riots.

Prominent among the constituencies going to polls is Muzaffarnagar, The
epicentre of last year's riots has SP's Virender Singh facing BSP's Kadir Rana,
an accused in the riots cases, Pankaj Agarwal from the Congress and Sanjeev
Kumar Balyan from the BJP. Rana is the sitting MP from here.

In Bijnor, the RLD has fielded former actress Jaya Prada in place of the sitting
MP Sanjay Chauhan. Jaya Prada had recently joined RLD along with Amar Singh. In
Meerut, film actress Nagma is the Congress candidate and facing the sitting MP
Rajendra Agarwal of the BJP. SP has fielded Shahid Manzoor and the BSP candidate
is Shahid Akhlaq. Nagma was in the news recently over the noncooperation of
local Congress workers. Baghpat is the traditional seat of RLD chief and Union
minister Ajit Singh as his father late Charan Singh represented it for many
years. He faces Ghulam Mohammed of the SP, Prashant Chaudhri of the BSP and
former Mumbai police commissioner Satya Pal Singh of the BJP. Ghaziabad has
several stars in the fray. From the Congress it is Raj Babbar, while the BJP has
fielded former Army Chief Gen (retired) V.K. Singh, and the Aam Aadmi party has
put up Shazia Ilmi. BJP chief Rajnath Singh represented this seat but has
preferred to move to Lucknow this time. The SP candidate is Saudhan Rawat and
the BSP has fielded Mukul Upadhyay.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             866 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

Pussy Riot are scapegoats for Russia's political crisis

BYLINE: Natalia Antonovaguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 768 words

ABSTRACT

Natalia Antonova: Their 'punk prayer service' offended my religious
sensibilities, but Pussy Riot's treatment by Orthodox Christians is horrifying

FULL TEXT

There is something oddly Shakespearian about the story of Pussy Riot, the
Russian feminist punk-rock collective staging impromptu events in balaclavas. It
recalls the narrative of King Lear's Fool - the laughter dying, the farce
drawing to a mysterious, possibly violent close. It likewise recalls the story
of the Jester in Andrei Tarkovsky's Andrei Rublev, a shimmering, brutal portrait
of 15th century Russia. The Jester is obscene and irreverent, mocking both the
state and the church - and suffers an unenviable fate.

Three alleged members of Pussy Riot - Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria Alyokhina,
and Yekaterina Samusevich - were jailed after they performed a "punk prayer
service" at Christ the Saviour cathedral in downtown Moscow. The masked women
ran to the pulpit and sang a song asking the Virgin to "chase [Vladimir Putin]
away," repeatedly crying "holy shit", dropping to the floor and crossing
themselves. They were swiftly escorted out. Arrests soon followed.

I felt pain when I saw the YouTube video dedicated to the performance. I'm not a
good Orthodox Christian girl by any stretch of the imagination, but the church,
to me, is still sacred - even a church such as the Cathedral of Christ the
Saviour. Destroyed by the Bolsheviks, the cathedral was rebuilt to play an odd
role in Russia's spiritual life - it showcased the worst of what the newly
powerful Orthodox church had to offer: pomp, circumstance, and tasteless
frescoes. I wish that it had been spared Pussy Riot's punk prayer service.

But my hurt at what had occurred was swiftly replaced by horror. It was as if
the extremists among Russia's Orthodox Christians were lying in wait for the
opportunity presented by Pussy Riot. There were calls to shoot the women. To
burn them alive. To strip two of them of their parental right. Pussy Riot
supporters were punched at rallies, people with T-shirts saying "Orthodoxy or
death" held court on the news. The protest movement, meanwhile, was divided and
confused. Christian members of the opposition faced accusations of colluding
with the enemy in the face of the church. Those Christians who openly called for
mercy and leniency were hounded by their more reactionary counterparts. Someone
threatened the judge who allowed Pussy Riot to remain jailed ahead of trial with
an axe. It was a mess. It still is.

Worst of all, Pussy Riot's fate now lies in the hands of Russia's criminal court
system. As a frequent observer of these courts, I cannot help but point out that
they are terrifying. In Moscow alone, over 90% of all criminal court cases end
up in convictions; anything less would threaten the close relationship of the
courts and the prosecutors. Whenever fellow believers say that "the courts
should decide" what to do with Pussy Riot, they are either being naive or openly
contemptuous. The courts are there to blindly, brutally enforce the social
hierarchy, just like they did in Soviet times - not to get to the bottom of
controversial criminal cases.

The incident and its aftermath made apparent the severe dissonance between my
actual faith and faith as it is publicly practised and I, a grown woman, found
myself crying over this. The dissonance is so enormous that it hurts me - it
makes me feel weak, cowardly and helpless. As Orthodox blogger Artyom Tasalov
put it: "More than ever now, I am convinced that what [Pussy Riot] did was
allowed by God, so that our hearts' intentions were revealed. How much darkness
and purulence do our hearts contain."

The pain flared up again this week, when the preliminary investigation against
Pussy Riot was completed. They face charges of hooliganism motivated by
religious hatred (decried as baseless by their lawyers) and may face seven years
in prison. In many ways, the women of Pussy Riot now appear to be scapegoats at
a time of political crisis in Russia.

Russian author Dmitry Bykov dedicated a poem to the arrest of Pussy Riot:

"I'm not a fan of the rioting pussies, of their group prayerI'm not a friend of
the punks either - may they forgive my boring tastes. But why not forgive this
stupidity, to excuse this buffoonery? (I'm trying to sound as toothless as
possible, so as to not anger anyone)."

At a time like this, would Jesus have retreated into the comfortable opulence of
the church's administrative offices? Or would he have gone knocking on the
jailhouse doors? I don't need to think hard about the answer.

· Follow Comment is Free on Twitter @commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             867 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Post

                                February 2, 2012
                                  1st Edition

Riots panel member visits city for answers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 290 words


A MEMBER of the panel set up by the government to explore why the August riots
happened is visiting Liverpool today.

Simon Marcus, a member of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel, will see how
areas have recovered and try to ensure affected residents have their voices
heard.

The Panel has been travelling around England visiting areas that were affected
by the riots.

Writing for The Liverpool Post, Mr Marcus said: "We have been speaking to local
residents, shopkeepers, young people and voluntary organisations about their
experiences last summer.

"You can see our initial findings in our interim report
www.5daysin-August.co.uk.

"Liverpool had 146 crimes committed over the five days of rioting last August as
shops were looted, vehicles were burnt and buildings were vandalised.

"During my visit I will meet with police officers who were on the front line
during the riots, visit a community centre and speak with youth offending teams,
local business representatives and voluntary groups to hear about the excellent
work that goes on in the local community.

"I will also visit some of the worst affected areas across the city to see how
residents and businesses have managed to recover and re-build to return to a
sense of 'normality'.

"There has been no shortage of national commentary, opinion and speculation on
the riots, and this visit is really valuable in allowing me to cut through that,
listen to local people and actually understand events from the point of view of
those directly affected.

"This is a Panel for the people - and we want to hear from you. Were you a
victim, were you tempted to riot or did you stop your children from rioting? We
are committed to work to ensure future riots can be prevented."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Simon Marcus MP Police tackle riots in south Liverpool last August

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: lp


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             868 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

150 inmates involved in prison riot

BYLINE: The Monterey County Herald

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 290 words


FOLSOM

Prison riot bigger than reported

More than 150 maximum-security inmates were involved in Wednesday's riot at the
California State prison in Folsom. Eleven inmates were injured.

Two inmates remain hospitalized Thursday. The rest were treated for minor
injuries and released. They had stab and gunshot wounds. None of the guards were
injured by the prisoners, but a guard went to the hospital because of breathing
problems caused by pepper spray.

The riot happened about 12:30 p.m. in the main exercise yard at California State
Prison-Sacramento, also known as the new Folsom Prison. The riot lasted about 10
minutes.

More than 400 staff members and officers responded to the riot. Officers used
pepper spray, non-lethal and lethal rounds to get the riot under control.

Herald wire reports

"We know at least seven rounds of lethal were fired," said Quinn.

Two tower guards fired those rounds. Tower guards are the only guards allowed to
use such ammunition.

Quinn told FOX40 that three inmates were hit with the lethal rounds, but their
conditions are unknown.

Officials found five weapons used by the inmates hidden in the yard. A more
thorough, "grid" search was done Thursday morning.

The facility will remain on lockdown, pending the investigation, but Quinn said
that shouldn't affect visitors. The facility is only open to visitors during the
weekend.

Officials at the prison told FOX40 there was also a smaller riot on Monday. No
weapons were used.

All inmates involved in the riot will be charged.

California State Prison-Sacramento, which opened in 1986, houses around 2,800
inmates and 1,700 staff members.     (c)2011 KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) Visit
KTXL-TV (Sacramento, Calif.) at www.fox40.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             869 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday

Riot victims blame govt for plot allotment

BYLINE: Sandeep Dua

SECTION: LUDHIANA

LENGTH: 302 words


LUDHIANA: Riot victims on Wednesday again levelled allegations against the
government ahead of process of collection of forms for allotment of flats that
will be re-initiated on Thursday. It was quite evident that the government had
given the relaxation of the monthly income condition that was objected to by the
riot victims.

They said that they had not even received Rs 2 lakh under the rehabilitation
grant scheme, which was initiated by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh because of
the lethargic attitude of the bureaucracy as they had rejected 10,000 files of
the riot victims for issuing them the red card.

Alleging foul play on the part of anti-Sikh officers in allotting 100 plots and
booths, the riot victims said that the Punjab government had decided to allot
1,700 plots and booths in the city. But deputy commissioner Rahul Tewari said
that only 1,150 persons were entitled as they had proper addresses.

Demanding red cards and plots for victims between 2001 to 2010, they said that
the 2,000 victims who were not able to submit their applications earlier should
be allowed to do so.

The riot victims will be blocking the road on the chief minister?s visit on
October 12 and the five-member riot victim welfare society would sit on the
indefinite hunger strike outside the chief minister?s house.

Tewari said that the process would be fair and transparent and riot victims
would get their due as he would be monitoring every process individually and the
issue was on the top priority list of the government. The riot victims should
not blame the district administration as they were trying their level best so
that the justice can be done to riot victims and they were conducting the
verification process in a very organized way and no formalities would be
completed in haste.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             870 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           September 3, 1991, Tuesday

Rioting In Proportion

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 621 words


How serious is a street riot? The idea makes respectable citizens fear for
themselves and society, and politicians and policemen reach for their verbal
bludgeons or actual truncheons. But a riot is not a political event. It is a
phenomenon of crowd psychology, serious simply because of damage and injury
caused and because of the apparent loss of control by the authorities. Political
remedies ''to prevent it happening again'' are probably a waste of time and
money.

Few public disorders can have had such bizarre origins as the riots in Oxford
and Cardiff over the past few days. In Oxford, youths fought police who were
trying to stop them using a local housing estate, Blackbird Leys, as a
motor-racing circuit. In Cardiff, a crowd sided with shopkeepers in a legal
battle over the sale of bread. In each instance the police donned riot gear to
protect themselves from missiles and even petrol bombs. Deplorable, yes;
unexpected, certainly; significant, no.

Recent riots in Brooklyn, New York, between Hasidic Jews and blacks were widely
greeted in the United States as marking a collapse in community relations. The
concern was not just at hatred and violence at one time in one place, but that
the internal peace of the US can be menced by any group with a grievance. The
Brooklyn riots were interpreted by commentators in the American press as a
warning of worse to come and as a sign of dissolution in the cohesion of
American society.

Such despair seems from abroad as premature as announcing the total collapse of
racial harmony in Cardiff because one of the two shopkeepers is Asian. There is
tension between Hasidic and black in Brooklyn, certainly, but so there is
between all ethnic groups crammed into the inner space of great cities. They
parade their ''attitude'' the new American word for pride in group identity
defiantly in the streets. The danger is that the police also display
''attitude'', and may easily find themselves included in the mix as just one
more tribe bidding for street ascendancy.

Research and experience from British inner cities in the riots of 1981 suggests
that riots are imitative, influenced by television. Once started, the escalation
can seem legitimised by instances elsewhere. Where else did the youths of Oxford
and Cardiff learn about Molotov cocktails if not from the screen? When an unruly
crowd issues a challenge to the police for the control of the streets, it is
useless to seek deep explanations for what follows. ''It is always best on these
occasions to do what the mob do,'' said Pickwick. The riot becomes a rough kind
of competitive team-sport. Law and order versus anarchy gives way to ''our
side'' versus ''their side''.

Rarely do the police emerge from post-riot enquiries with an A1 rating for tact
and gentleness. In many cases of urban riot, the police are recruited from a
different racial group from the rioters. Sometimes they are also part-timers,
called out specifically to deal with the unrest, a serious difficulty in
Northern Ireland in the past. Such part-timers are often under-trained, the
worst people to handle the delicacies of a street disturbance on its way towards
riot. Many riots, such as those in Handsworth in 1985, originated in insensitive
policing of the intricate, often illicit, local economy.

All this means is that policing of city disturbance requires not overreaction
from police or public but good police intelligence and first-class training. The
British police have mastered such skills as sweating out a hostage siege,
applying psychological techniques to build relationships and eventually coaxing
the hostage-taker into surrender. They should be no less cool in their response
to a challenge on the streets.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited


                             871 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Leaders and institutions must stop indulging lawbreakers

BYLINE: Eddy Li

LENGTH: 740  words


The Mong Kok riot has obviously been a much-discussed issue in Hong Kong over
the past days. On the night of Feb 8, the Lunar New Year Day, a dispute between
officials of the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department and unlicensed
hawkers turned into a violent conflict between rioters and police. About 130
people, 90 police officers included, were injured in the riot. Rioters hurled
glass bottles and bricks at police, bludgeoned them with sticks, smashed shop
windows, and set fire to rubbish and trash bins. One of the busiest MTR stations
in the city - Mong Kok Station - was temporarily suspended after the riot
started. This severely disrupted the Chinese New Year plans of many people in
the city. The police later arrested 69 people for their role in the riot.

The Lunar New Year is the most important traditional festival for the Chinese.
Family members celebrate together and hope for a promising new year ahead.
However, on the very first day of Chinese New Year, violent protesters greatly
tarnished the festive atmosphere with bricks and violence.

This violence was started by members of Hong Kong Indigenous, a radical
political group. It is not hard for any sensible person to realize that the
justifications they used of protecting unlicensed hawkers from the police
crackdown were just an excuse to hide their real motives. They really wanted to
cause a serious disturbance.

As we can all see from the television footage, the event was clearly
premeditated. The mobs involved were well-equipped with helmets, masks, shields
and cudgels. There were even vans which were transporting materials to them so
they could continue to fight with police! They were clearly very well-organized.
This was a blatant attempt to disrupt our society during a very special time of
the year.

Sadly this reprehensible act of violence is still being justified by some
people. Some politicians and academics, in order to divert the focus of the
public away from the violent behavior of the rioters, are rejecting the use of
the term "riot". They claim that "riot" contains a negative connotation being
exploited by the SAR government to influence the public. They even drew
references to the Star Ferry riot of 1966 and Hong Kong riots of 1967. During
these incidents 1,465 and 1,936 people were arrested, respectively. They are
trying wrongly to suggest the Feb 8 incident was not as serious as other riots.
They even want the public to believe the young people involved were coerced into
becoming rioters by contempt for the state of governance in Hong Kong.

But is this true? Is there anyone who is really threatening them? Can violence
be justified as it often is in the movies and video games which teenagers watch
and play so much nowadays? Do they even understand what they are doing when they
riot and protest so violently? Are they really becoming the heroes they believe
in? These are questions more people in Hong Kong need to think carefully about.

Viewed from any perspective, the Mong Kok riot was a deliberately planned and
illegal act. It should therefore be condemned by every responsible person in
Hong Kong. Moreover, those responsible should be punished according to the law.
When we think about it seriously, the wild and aggressive behavior of some young
people has become increasingly worse.

Moreover, the response to this by some people in society and the judiciary has
not helped matters. Our often kind and gentle approach when dealing with young
people tends to make us forgive them too easily. The legal system frequently
tends to punish them too leniently when they commit crimes. These young people
are therefore quite fearless when it comes to breaking the law. After all,
during the illegal "Occupy Central" movement in 2014, not many of the
participants were charged afterwards.

I believe the time to indulge such people in Hong Kong should come to an end.
Hong Kong is a free city that embraces the rule of law - we have freedom to
express our feelings in so many legal ways which the government is very
receptive to, for example through e-mails, written proposals, songs, posters, or
even legal demonstrations. But we should also understand that in a civilized
city like Hong Kong, every crime committed should be judged according to the
law. We all, ultimately, have to take responsibility for our actions.

(HK Edition 02/19/2016 page11)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1495/35/145595000857.jpg

00221917e13e1830ac0b2b.jpg

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             872 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Leaders and institutions must stop indulging lawbreakers

BYLINE: Eddy Li

LENGTH: 727  words


The Mong Kok riot has obviously been a much-discussed issue in Hong Kong over
the past days. On the night of Feb 8, the Lunar New Year Day, a dispute between
officials of the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department and unlicensed
hawkers turned into a violent conflict between rioters and police. About 130
people, 90 police officers included, were injured in the riot. Rioters hurled
glass bottles and bricks at police, bludgeoned them with sticks, smashed shop
windows, and set fire to rubbish and trash bins. One of the busiest MTR stations
in the city - Mong Kok Station - was temporarily suspended after the riot
started. This severely disrupted the Chinese New Year plans of many people in
the city. The police later arrested 69 people for their role in the riot.

The Lunar New Year is the most important traditional festival for the Chinese.
Family members celebrate together and hope for a promising new year ahead.
However, on the very first day of Chinese New Year, violent protesters greatly
tarnished the festive atmosphere with bricks and violence.

This violence was started by members of Hong Kong Indigenous, a radical
political group. It is not hard for any sensible person to realize that the
justifications they used of protecting unlicensed hawkers from the police
crackdown were just an excuse to hide their real motives. They really wanted to
cause a serious disturbance.

As we can all see from the television footage, the event was clearly
premeditated. The mobs involved were well-equipped with helmets, masks, shields
and cudgels. There were even vans which were transporting materials to them so
they could continue to fight with police! They were clearly very well-organized.
This was a blatant attempt to disrupt our society during a very special time of
the year.

Sadly this reprehensible act of violence is still being justified by some
people. Some politicians and academics, in order to divert the focus of the
public away from the violent behavior of the rioters, are rejecting the use of
the term "riot". They claim that "riot" contains a negative connotation being
exploited by the SAR government to influence the public. They even drew
references to the Star Ferry riot of 1966 and Hong Kong riots of 1967. During
these incidents 1,465 and 1,936 people were arrested, respectively. They are
trying wrongly to suggest the Feb 8 incident was not as serious as other riots.
They even want the public to believe the young people involved were coerced into
becoming rioters by contempt for the state of governance in Hong Kong.

But is this true? Is there anyone who is really threatening them? Can violence
be justified as it often is in the movies and video games which teenagers watch
and play so much nowadays? Do they even understand what they are doing when they
riot and protest so violently? Are they really becoming the heroes they believe
in? These are questions more people in Hong Kong need to think carefully about.

Viewed from any perspective, the Mong Kok riot was a deliberately planned and
illegal act. It should therefore be condemned by every responsible person in
Hong Kong. Moreover, those responsible should be punished according to the law.
When we think about it seriously, the wild and aggressive behavior of some young
people has become increasingly worse.

Moreover, the response to this by some people in society and the judiciary has
not helped matters. Our often kind and gentle approach when dealing with young
people tends to make us forgive them too easily. The legal system frequently
tends to punish them too leniently when they commit crimes. These young people
are therefore quite fearless when it comes to breaking the law. After all,
during the illegal "Occupy Central" movement in 2014, not many of the
participants were charged afterwards.

I believe the time to indulge such people in Hong Kong should come to an end.
Hong Kong is a free city that embraces the rule of law - we have freedom to
express our feelings in so many legal ways which the government is very
receptive to, for example through e-mails, written proposals, songs, posters, or
even legal demonstrations. But we should also understand that in a civilized
city like Hong Kong, every crime committed should be judged according to the
law. We all, ultimately, have to take responsibility for our actions.

(HK Edition 02/19/2016 page11)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             873 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        China Daily (Hong Kong Edition)

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Leaders and institutions must stop indulging lawbreakers

BYLINE: Eddy Li

LENGTH: 727  words


The Mong Kok riot has obviously been a much-discussed issue in Hong Kong over
the past days. On the night of Feb 8, the Lunar New Year Day, a dispute between
officials of the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department and unlicensed
hawkers turned into a violent conflict between rioters and police. About 130
people, 90 police officers included, were injured in the riot. Rioters hurled
glass bottles and bricks at police, bludgeoned them with sticks, smashed shop
windows, and set fire to rubbish and trash bins. One of the busiest MTR stations
in the city - Mong Kok Station - was temporarily suspended after the riot
started. This severely disrupted the Chinese New Year plans of many people in
the city. The police later arrested 69 people for their role in the riot.

The Lunar New Year is the most important traditional festival for the Chinese.
Family members celebrate together and hope for a promising new year ahead.
However, on the very first day of Chinese New Year, violent protesters greatly
tarnished the festive atmosphere with bricks and violence.

This violence was started by members of Hong Kong Indigenous, a radical
political group. It is not hard for any sensible person to realize that the
justifications they used of protecting unlicensed hawkers from the police
crackdown were just an excuse to hide their real motives. They really wanted to
cause a serious disturbance.

As we can all see from the television footage, the event was clearly
premeditated. The mobs involved were well-equipped with helmets, masks, shields
and cudgels. There were even vans which were transporting materials to them so
they could continue to fight with police! They were clearly very well-organized.
This was a blatant attempt to disrupt our society during a very special time of
the year.

Sadly this reprehensible act of violence is still being justified by some
people. Some politicians and academics, in order to divert the focus of the
public away from the violent behavior of the rioters, are rejecting the use of
the term "riot". They claim that "riot" contains a negative connotation being
exploited by the SAR government to influence the public. They even drew
references to the Star Ferry riot of 1966 and Hong Kong riots of 1967. During
these incidents 1,465 and 1,936 people were arrested, respectively. They are
trying wrongly to suggest the Feb 8 incident was not as serious as other riots.
They even want the public to believe the young people involved were coerced into
becoming rioters by contempt for the state of governance in Hong Kong.

But is this true? Is there anyone who is really threatening them? Can violence
be justified as it often is in the movies and video games which teenagers watch
and play so much nowadays? Do they even understand what they are doing when they
riot and protest so violently? Are they really becoming the heroes they believe
in? These are questions more people in Hong Kong need to think carefully about.

Viewed from any perspective, the Mong Kok riot was a deliberately planned and
illegal act. It should therefore be condemned by every responsible person in
Hong Kong. Moreover, those responsible should be punished according to the law.
When we think about it seriously, the wild and aggressive behavior of some young
people has become increasingly worse.

Moreover, the response to this by some people in society and the judiciary has
not helped matters. Our often kind and gentle approach when dealing with young
people tends to make us forgive them too easily. The legal system frequently
tends to punish them too leniently when they commit crimes. These young people
are therefore quite fearless when it comes to breaking the law. After all,
during the illegal "Occupy Central" movement in 2014, not many of the
participants were charged afterwards.

I believe the time to indulge such people in Hong Kong should come to an end.
Hong Kong is a free city that embraces the rule of law - we have freedom to
express our feelings in so many legal ways which the government is very
receptive to, for example through e-mails, written proposals, songs, posters, or
even legal demonstrations. But we should also understand that in a civilized
city like Hong Kong, every crime committed should be judged according to the
law. We all, ultimately, have to take responsibility for our actions.

(HK Edition 02/19/2016 page11)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1495


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             874 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday

Prison picks up the pieces

BYLINE: Karen Wilkinson The Times-Standard

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 654 words


Nearly a week after the second riot in less than three weeks at Pelican Bay
State Prison, officials are trying to pinpoint the cause and segregate inmates
involved from those who weren't.

"We need to take it slow with those involved and make sure the investigation is
thorough and complete," said Lt. Ken Thomas, Pelican Bay spokesman.

A riot involving 66 inmates from rival Hispanic gangs broke out Friday afternoon
in one of the two maximum-security general population yards, in three different
spots.

Two inmates were seriously injured and taken to Crescent City's Sutter Coast
Hospital for treatment, while two correctional officers received minor injuries.
One had a finger injury, and the other's forearm was hurt by a chair thrown by
an inmate.

Thomas said the injured inmates had serious stab wounds that weren't
life-threatening. On Thursday, one inmate was still in the hospital, while the
other had returned to the prison.

A similar riot occurred on New Year's Eve and involved members of the same two
gangs -- the Northern Hispanics and the Southern Hispanics. Close to 50 inmates
were involved in the riot, which occurred on the other maximum-security general
population yard, Thomas said.

"Initially, we believe this is a gang-related incident. However, we want to make
every effort to find out who is responsible for this riot so they can be held
accountable for their actions," he said in a statement. "This appears to be a
calculated incident, based on the fact that the riot occurred at three different
locations at the same time."

Weapons were found after both riots, including makeshift knives made from melted
plastic. "Inmates are pretty ingenious about what they can manufacture into
weapons," Thomas said.

The prison, which houses an average of more than 3,400 minimum- and
maximum-security inmates and employs more than 1,500 people, hasn't been the
same since Friday.

Prison officials have been moving inmates involved into segregated housing
areas, which is described as a jail within the prison, and temporarily revoking
privileges -- such as education, yard activity or work -- from prisoners in the
"A and B facility" general population areas.

"Unfortunately, we're dealing with individuals who have earned their way to
Pelican Bay," Thomas said, meaning they are among California's most hard-core
criminals. "There are additional problems that follow a riot of that size. It's
just a sad reality of prisons."

Another sad reality is housing, and there simply isn't enough to space in the
segregated area to handle all 66 inmates, Thomas said.

"There were 66 inmates involved in a riot in a prison that was full," he said.
"If housing units are full, we have to put those 66 inmates somewhere."

The hope is to get all general-population inmates back to their normal routines
as soon as possible while completing the investigation, Thomas said.

In addition to the prison's investigation, the California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation's Deadly Force Investigation Team, the Office of
the Inspector General's Bureau of Independent Review and the Del Norte County
District Attorney's Office will be reviewing the incident.

The number of riots that have occurred at Pelican Bay wasn't immediately
available, as a "riot" is considered involving three or more inmates, Thomas
said.

The biggest riot, however, occurred on Feb. 23, 2000. The brawl involved about
200 black and Latino inmates in "Facility B." One inmate was fatally shot by a
correctional officer and 12 others were wounded.

Thomas said staff morale hasn't been affected too much since the latest
incident, as correctional officers are go through rigorous training.

"They know when they walk through that gate of the possibility that there could
be a riot," he said. "Although we obviously don't welcome situations like this,
they're an inevitable part of prisons."

Karen Wilkinson can be reached at 441-0514 or kwilkinson@times-standard.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             875 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 5, 2011 Monday

Iraq's Kurdistan parliament to discuss Dahuk riots 7 December

LENGTH: 986 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic, in its evening newscasts on 4
December, reports on an emergency session to discuss the Zakhu riots at the
Iraqi Kurdistan Parliament; interviews via satellite with Sharif Sulayman and
Farhad al-Atrushi, parliament members for the Kurdistan Alliance; a statement by
The US Consulate in Kurdistan on the Zakhu riots; the separation of the Amal
al-Rafidayn Bloc from the State of Law Coalition; Kurdistan Region President
Mas'ud Barzani's visit to Zakhu District; a statement by Vice President Tariq
al-Hashimi on the declaration of Salah-al-Din Governorate a region; and other
security developments.

Political developments

Within its 1300 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-"The speakership of the Iraqi Kurdistan Parliament has called for an emergency
session next Wednesday [7 December] to discuss the situation in Dahuk
Governorate following the riots which erupted there. The speakership condemned
the incidents that took place in Zakhu District, calling on the political
spectrum and the residents to exercise self-restraint and stop trading
accusations over the riots."

-"The residents of Dahuk Governorate have said that the Zakhu riots will not
have negative impact on the unity of the social fabric. They went on to say that
their governorate does not stand under the banner of extremism, adding that its
constituents do not differ with one another."

-At 1306 gmt, the channel carries an interview via satellite with Kurdistan
Alliance MP Sharif Sulayman on the Dahuk riots. Asked about the outcome of the
ad hoc committee created by the Ministry of Interior over the acts of violence,
Sharif says: "The committee is working to reveal the circumstances of the
incidents that took place in Zakhu District, Dahuk Governorate. The committee is
performing its duties in order to specify the motives and agenda of those who
committed the acts of violence."

On the accusations against clerics that they were beyond the riots, Sharif says:
"The acts of violence were committed after the Friday prayers. It seems that the
incident was deliberate." Sharif adds: "Some aimed to spread ancient ideologies,
but the Kurdish people could not be influenced by such outdated ideas. Some
attempt to harm us since they envy the achievements, religious tolerance, and
peaceful coexistence of the Kurdistan Region."

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-"Kurdistan Region President Mas'ud Barzani has arrived in Zakhu District to
discuss the incidents that took place in the district during the last two days.
The Kurdistan Region Presidency Diwan stated that the visit aimed to closely
inspect the situation and know the factors that caused the riots. Additionally,
Barzani held a meeting with local officials."

-"The US Consulate in Kurdistan has condemned the Zakhu riots, calling for
restoring security and stability to the district. US Consul General to Kurdistan
Alexander Lascaris denounced the plundering of liquor stores and the attacks on
minorities in Zakhu District, adding that the stores were licensed. Lascaris
called for coexistence among the different ethnicities of Kurdistan."

-At 1707 gmt, the channel carries an interview via satellite with Farhad
al-Atrushi, parliament member for the Kurdistan Alliance. Asked about the
current situation in Zakhu District, Al-Atrushi says: "These riots had nothing
to do with the so-called 17 February riots. A group of teenagers brought about
chaos in Zakhu city due to rumours claiming that some spas violated the rulings
of the Islamic shari'ah."

-"Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi has stated that the declaration of a
Salah-al-Din region is constitutional. Al-Hashimi noted that the government
shelved the request submitted by the Salah-al-Din Provincial Council despite the
fact that the request was legal."

-"The Amal al-Rafidayn Bloc has declared its withdrawal from the ranks of the
State of Law Coalition at the Karbala Provincial Council in protest against the
central government's policy towards the governorates. Abbas Hamid al-Musawi,
head of the bloc, attributed the withdrawal to the federal interference in the
powers of the provincial council, noting that such an action hampered the local
government. Al-Musawi added that the bloc would make unilateral decisions
without holding consultations with the State of Law Coalition."

Security Developments

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-"Al-Sulaymaniyah Governorate residents, who are accustomed to make shopping by
night, have confirmed that the security situation was stable due to the efforts
exerted by the security services."

-"The Ministry of Defence has said that a terrorist was killed and 13 others
arrested in a pre-emptive operation carried out by security services in Mosul.
Major General Muhammad al-Askari, spokesman for the Ministry of Defence, said
that this operation aimed to capture the remnants of the terrorist Al-Qa'idah
Organization and the Saddamist Ba'th Party, noting that the security forces
seized 23 explosive devices and sticky bombs as well as flyers that call for
joining the Saddamist Ba'th Party. Additionally, large quantities of weapons and
explosives were confiscated."

-"The security services arrested 15 terrorists in several areas in Diyala
Governorate. A security source said that a security force launched a series of
arrest campaigns in the districts of Al-Khalis, Al-Miqdadiyah, Bani-Sa'd,
Ba'qubah, Khaniqin, and Tal Abbas."

-"Five terrorists were arrested according to Article 4 of the Terrorism Law in
northern Tikrit, Salah-al-Din Governorate. A security source said that the
operations were based on intelligence reports from different villages in
Al-Sharqat District."

-"An Army force arrested an operative of Al-Qa'idah while possessing weapons and
ammunition in northern Babil."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300 gmt 4 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             876 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                Falmouth Packet

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Miniature mayhem in Falmouth with riot police, vandals and overturned cars

BYLINE: Peter Johnstone

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


Scenes of destruction and chaos arrived in Falmouth on Friday with looting,
vandalism, riot police and a lorry smashing through a fast food store - but
luckily all in the name of art.

The scenes of carnage were all rendered in 1:87 models, safely contained in a
shipping container as part of the latest project by artist and musician Jimmy
Cauty.

The Aftermath Dislocation Principle (ADP) Riot tour - which appeared at Banksy's
Dismaland last year - was carried into town in it's 40 foot container by
articulated lorry, and plenty of visitors have already put their eyes up to the
many observation ports ranged along it's sides to view the disorder that lies
within.

Falmouth is the latest stop on ADP Riot's UK-wide tour, described by the artist
as a pilgrimage to historic riot sites around the country, from more recent
events or more time-honoured ones, although it is not intended to romanticise
the role of social disorder.

Leaflets are available explaining each location's riot, in Falmouth's case in
1810 when the riot act was read to mutineers on the packet ships who had become
enraged over customs officers taking goods which they believed were one of the
perks of the job.

The leaflet also refers to civil unrest in Cornwall in 1727 when tin miners
plundered the granaries of Falmouth, the Cornish rebellion of 1497 and the
Prayer Book Rebellion of 1549, and the Newlyn fish riots of 1896.

People visiting the piece are encouraged to add graffiti to the container, which
is becoming gradually covered as the tour progresses.

The organisers said: "Far from inciting another riot, we hope the experience of
the ADP in Falmouth will be a fun, peaceful and thought-provoking one, with the
only real disturbance being the constant chatter of miniature police radios,
dotted all over the exhibit."

The artist, Jimmy Cauty, co-created the chart-topping band The KLF, and its
subsequent incarnation The K Foundation, which became notorious in 1994 for
burning £1 million.

The work has been brought to Falmouth with the help of Falmouth Town Council,
the Independent School of Art and Falmouth Art Gallery, with art gallery
director Henrietta Boex calling it "a bit of a coup for Falmouth."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             877 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday
                                  Pune Edition

Riot-accused MLA gets 'Z' security

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 387 words


BJP MLA Som Sangeet, accused of instigating last year's Muzaffarnagar riots in
UP, has been accorded 'Z' category security, just a notch lower than the highest
protection extended to a threatened VIP. It was approved by the home ministry
after intelligence inputs warned of a threat to his life from alleged extremist
elements.

Som, who represents the Sardhana assembly seat in western UP, is likely to be
protected by CRPF commandos. "We have received a letter from the Centre
regarding upgrade of Som's security (from Y category) to Z category," UP's IG
(Law and Order) Amrendra Singh Sengar was quoted by PTI as saying. The letter
has been forwarded to the agency concerned, he said.

The move to grant 'Z' security cover to the riot-accused legislator was

slammed by opposition parties, including the Congress and JD(U), which called it
"a joke on the victims of Muzaffarnagar riots". But the BJP defended the
government's decision as based on "independent assessment" of the threat
perception by the intelligence agencies.

Sources said home minister Rajnath Singh approved 'Z' category protection for
Som after he was convinced that his life was under a genuine threat from
religious extremists.

However, the Congress minced no words in criticizing the move to shield a riot
-accused. "It's a weird thing. It's a strange government. Those who are victims
of riots are running from pillar to post and those who are riot-accused are
getting Z category security...nothing can be a bigger irony, a bigger joke with

those, whose houses were burnt and those who suffered huge losses," remarked
Congress leader Manish Tewari.

Another Congress leader Rashid Alvi questioned the move to provide security to
those allegedly engaged in killings, while leaving the riot victims in the
lurch.

"This security cover is not for Som but a licence for killing innocent people
and fanning communal disharmony between two communities of a highly sensitive
state," said JD(U) general secretary K C Tyagi.

In a statement, he said the move "will encourage such people involved in
instigating hatred in the society and will create a sense of insecurity and
further alienation among the minorities".

The BJP countered, saying the decision was based on "sufficient evidence" from
intelligence agencies and not on the "whims and fancies" of the government.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             878 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday
                                  Pune Edition

Riot-accused MLA gets 'Z' security

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 387 words


BJP MLA Som Sangeet, accused of instigating last year's Muzaffarnagar riots in
UP, has been accorded 'Z' category security, just a notch lower than the highest
protection extended to a threatened VIP. It was approved by the home ministry
after intelligence inputs warned of a threat to his life from alleged extremist
elements.

Som, who represents the Sardhana assembly seat in western UP, is likely to be
protected by CRPF commandos. "We have received a letter from the Centre
regarding upgrade of Som's security (from Y category) to Z category," UP's IG
(Law and Order) Amrendra Singh Sengar was quoted by PTI as saying. The letter
has been forwarded to the agency concerned, he said.

The move to grant 'Z' security cover to the riot-accused legislator was

slammed by opposition parties, including the Congress and JD(U), which called it
"a joke on the victims of Muzaffarnagar riots". But the BJP defended the
government's decision as based on "independent assessment" of the threat
perception by the intelligence agencies.

Sources said home minister Rajnath Singh approved 'Z' category protection for
Som after he was convinced that his life was under a genuine threat from
religious extremists.

However, the Congress minced no words in criticizing the move to shield a riot
-accused. "It's a weird thing. It's a strange government. Those who are victims
of riots are running from pillar to post and those who are riot-accused are
getting Z category security...nothing can be a bigger irony, a bigger joke with

those, whose houses were burnt and those who suffered huge losses," remarked
Congress leader Manish Tewari.

Another Congress leader Rashid Alvi questioned the move to provide security to
those allegedly engaged in killings, while leaving the riot victims in the
lurch.

"This security cover is not for Som but a licence for killing innocent people
and fanning communal disharmony between two communities of a highly sensitive
state," said JD(U) general secretary K C Tyagi.

In a statement, he said the move "will encourage such people involved in
instigating hatred in the society and will create a sense of insecurity and
further alienation among the minorities".

The BJP countered, saying the decision was based on "sufficient evidence" from
intelligence agencies and not on the "whims and fancies" of the government.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             879 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             June 2, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fourteen locked up for 'an attack on the community';
Yobs involved in last summer's disorder have been locked up. Legal Affairs
Correspondent Rebecca Sherdley reports

BYLINE: Rebecca Sherdley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1207 words


THE judge who sentenced 14 people for their roles in the disorder in Nottingham
last summer said it was a "p re -meditated attack on the police and the local
community".

The group appeared before him in the dock at Nottingham Crown Court to be told
their sentences yesterday.

They stood up one by one to be given their punishments of imprisonment.

On Wednesday, six of them had been found guilty of being involved in the riot,
including two boys aged 16 and 17 years, who cannot be identified.

Six men previously admitted riot and four others pleaded guilty to violent
disorder last August. Fourteen of the 16 were sentenced yesterday.

The court heard how a mob had surged towards Canning Circus, some wearing
disguises and armed with weapons, just before the police station was attacked
last August.

Some carried lit petrol bombs and hurled them at the police station, setting the
front canopy on fire.

Two officers rushed to the front of the building and put out the fire as the
station continued to be attacked.

The mob retreated but were rapidly contained by police, who responded in riot
gear and with police dogs.

Judge Michael Stokes QC told the 14 before him yesterday that the evidence that
there was a planned attack was overwhelming.

Text messages were sent out beforehand; some individuals were acting as "re
-cruiting officers" in order to gather as many as possible to join the action;
and petrol bombs were made in advance.

They had been prepared and stored at the home of Curtis Dejean, 19, of Welstead
Avenue, Aspley. He was jailed for ten years after having admitted riot, arson
being reckless as to whether life is endangered and possessing the petrol bombs.
The judge told him: "Most, if not all, the petrol bombs used were prepared at
your home in Denman Street.

"You were involved in moving them to Canning Circus. Your intent was manifest.
It was to firebomb the police station."

The longest sentence was handed to rioter Lance Francis, 25, of no fixed
address, who was jailed for a total of 12-and-a-half years.

The court heard he was an "enthusiastic and leading rioter" and was involved in
throwing at least one petrol bomb at the police station.

He was convicted of riot, arson with intent to endanger life and perverting the
course of justice.

He received an extra two years on top of this for separate offences of
blackmail, handling stolen goods and harassment, which he had admitted.

His stepdad, Brandon Skerritt, said afterwards that he was devastated at the
sentence. "My boy had no evidence against him, only hearsay."

Reiss Wilson, 21, of Beckhampton Road, Bestwood, received eight-and-half years
after he admitted riot, arson being reckless as to whether life would be
endangered and perverting the course of justice. He received four years in
addition for drugs offences, which he admitted.

The court heard he played a leading role in the events.

"Whether you personally threw [petrol bombs] is unclear," said the judge. "But
it is clear you had direct contact with petrol bombs and accept that you were
fully part of this enterprise, the object of which was to firebomb the police
station."

After sentencing all 14, the judge commended police for their actions and
members of the public. He paid tribute to the rapid deployment of police
officers. "Had the command structure not been in place and deployment been so
fast, there is every prospect that most of those arrested would have escaped,"
he said.

Police chief's pride as officers praised AS the sentences were handed out to the
14 in the dock, Nottinghamshire's assistant chief constable, Paul Broadbent, was
in court.

He heard Judge Michael Stokes QC praise the quick response from officers on the
night of the disorder.

Afterwards, Mr Broadbent said: "I think the sentences reflect what society feels
about these mindless individuals."

Asked what he thought the message the sentences sent, he said: "I think the
message is quite clear: that no matter what criminal conduct takes place, no
matter how complex the investigation, we will, the police service, present that
evidence in court and you will get found guilty, simple as."

The judge had mentioned in court how police made plans to draw the violence away
from the public and property and on to themselves.

Mr Broadbent explained: "Our fundamental role of the job of the police is to
protect the public. And if that means putting yourself in harm's away, literally
in the firing line to draw some of these criminals away from innocent members of
the public and to take that flak, that's what we'll do. That's what we did and
it worked extremely well.

"And let's not forget that depends on my officers being extremely brave and
today's one of the proudest moments of my 30-year career, when I can hear the
judge commend my officers for their courage and bravery."

He said the force was still looking at what caused the riot.

"There's already been a number of reports generated. We will continue to revisit
to establish the real cause."

Ashton Alexander, 19, of Radford Road, New Basford, admitted riot. He was
sentenced to four years in a youth custody.

Lance Francis, 25, of no fixed address, was found guilty of riot, arson with
intent to endanger life, and perverting the course of justice. He received
12-and-a-half years.

A 16-year-old who cannot be named for legal reasons but was 15 at the time, was
found guilty of riot. He will be sentenced on June 22.

Antany Edwards, 23, of Noel Street, Hyson Green, pleaded guilty to riot. He
received three years and nine months.

Callum Powell, 20, of Jarrow Gardens, Top Valley, was found guilty of riot. He
was given five-and-a-half years in a young offenders' institute.

Kaiden Howell, 16, of Eccles Way, St Ann's, who can now be identified, pleaded
guilty to violent disorder. He was given six months' detention.

Curtis Dejean, 19, of Welstead Avenue, Aspley, admitted riot, arson being
reckless as to whether life was endangered and possessing petrol bombs. He got
ten years in youth custody.

Harrison McCalla, 21, of Carlswark Gardens, Top Valley, pleaded guilty to riot.
He was sentenced to four-and-a-half years.

Marcus Wynter, 16, of Leeroy Wallace Avenue, Radford, pleaded guilty to violent
disorder. He received four months' detention.

Gregory Coleman, 20, of Bells Lane, Aspley, was found guilty of riot. He
received five years' detention.

Bobby Muers, 18, of Caunton Avenue, St Ann's, pleaded guilty to violent
disorder. He was given a 15-month sentence.

Lucas Stapleton, 18, of Dulwich Road, Radford, admitted riot when he appeared in
court on April 17. He was given two years and nine months' detention.

Shaundre Robinson, 22, of Scotholme Avenue, Hyson Green, was found guilty of
riot. He received five years in prison.

Reiss Wilson, 21, of Beckhampton Road, Bestwood, admitted riot, perverting the
course of justice and arson being reckless as to whether life was endangered. He
got eight-and-a-half years for these offences.

Ricardo Cotteral, 23, of Basford Road, Basford, admitted violent disorder.
Yesterday, he was sentenced to three years in prison.

A 17-year-old who cannot be named for legal reasons was found guilty of riot. He
will be sentenced with the 16-year-old on June 22.

'' Your intent was manifest. It was to firebomb the police station. Judge
Michael Stokes QC

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Under attack: A CCTV image taken at the height of the riot in Canning
Circus.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             880 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 19, 2009 Thursday

Thai army, navy, air force, marines to receive training in riot control

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 19 February

Troops from the army, navy, air force and marines will receive training in riot
control as pro-and anti-Thaksin Shinawatra forces look increasingly to be on a
collision course.

First Army commander Kanit Sapitak has told the 11th Infantry Battalion to
prepare officers from the three armed forces as well as the marines for riot
control operations and help them set up riot control units.

The battalion is recognised for its riot control skills and serves as a riot
control model for other military units.

A Defence Ministry source said the move was intended to deal with possible
clashes between members of the United Front of Democracy against Dictatorship
(UDD) and supporters of the People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD).

The PAD has announced plans to hold rallies in the provinces, including those
which are considered strongholds of the Puea Thai party, while the UDD has plans
to hold protests against the Democrat-led coalition government, including a
major gathering scheduled for next Tuesday.

The navy formed a riot control unit late last year to support police in dealing
with PAD demonstrators who seized Suvarnabhumi airport.

The Defence source said the navy had no experience in riot control and had to be
trained.

He said the army, navy and air force would probably have to work together and
pool their resources and men to cope with the planned demonstrations by the PAD
and UDD.

The military riot units will be trained not to use weapons against protesters,
and they will be equipped only with shields, batons and helmets.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 19 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             881 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       August 7, 2016 Sunday 9:50 AM GMT

Revealed: The compensation paid to victims of the Birmingham riots since 2011;
Compensation payments were made to 325 people and businesses

BYLINE: By Nick McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 441 words


The amount victims of the 2011 summer riots have received in compensation has
been revealed for the first time.

Businesses and individuals were entitled to apply for funds under the Riot
Damages Act, which was administered at the time by the former West Midlands
Police Authority.

Latest figures released under freedom of information laws by West Midlands
Police show more than £2.29million in compensation has been paid out,

Since the disorder, five years ago, 325 claims were submitted from across the
West Midlands totalling more than £5.5million. There are just two outstanding
claims, with payments made in the other 323 cases.

Despite receiving payouts from the government fund some businesses never
recovered.

A city centre newsagent that was ransacked by looters was forced to close less
than two years after the attacks.

The owner of the Machan Express shop and cafe on Newhall Street, said the riots
were partly to blame for the demise of his shop.

The businessman was visited by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge after the
Birmingham Mail released shocking footage of the raid in the aftermath of the
riots.

More than 70 thugs, many of them children who could barely see over the counter,
had stormed into the store after smashing through the glass front door at the
height of the disorder on August 9.

Watch: Looters swarm over Machan Express kiosk

Many of the looters escaped within 60 seconds, but the owners were left with a
bill for damages and lost stock of more than £9,000.

Officers revealed that some of the youngsters who were arrested nearby were too
young to face prosecution.

A number of teenagers appeared in court after the riots and cannot be named for
legal reasons.

They included a 15-year-old boy, from Tile Cross, who pleaded guilty to stealing
13 packets of fruit gums and 21 Yorkie chocolate bars, worth just £20.40.

Other people convicted include a 14-year-old and two 16-year-olds.

WANTED: The Birmingham riots 2011 suspects still at large

Just one pane glass separated Steve Ebanks from rampaging thugs who attacked his
the Cyber Candy shop he managed with bricks, chairs and even bins.

He was one of just 150 people who received a special bravery awards from West
Midlands Police in the aftermath of the riots.

He was trapped inside the Bull Street store when it came under attack on the
first night of the riots.

Birmingham riots 2011: These CCTV videos exposes these 'rioters' as greedy
looters

The damaged front of Steve's store also became a defining image of the riots
when he painted a "Keep Calm and Candy On" message on the temporary wooden
hoardings.

The move led to the creation of a number of Facebook appreciation groups.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                             882 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       August 7, 2016 Sunday 9:50 AM GMT

Revealed: The compensation paid to victims of the Birmingham riots since 2011;
Compensation payments were made to 325 people and businesses

BYLINE: By Nick McCarthy

LENGTH: 441 words


The amount victims of the 2011 summer riots have received in compensation has
been revealed for the first time.

Businesses and individuals were entitled to apply for funds under the Riot
Damages Act, which was administered at the time by the former West Midlands
Police Authority.

Latest figures released under freedom of information laws by West Midlands
Police show more than £2.29million in compensation has been paid out,

Since the disorder, five years ago, 325 claims were submitted from across the
West Midlands totalling more than £5.5million. There are just two outstanding
claims, with payments made in the other 323 cases.

Despite receiving payouts from the government fund some businesses never
recovered.

A city centre newsagent that was ransacked by looters was forced to close less
than two years after the attacks.

The owner of the Machan Express shop and cafe on Newhall Street, said the riots
were partly to blame for the demise of his shop.

The businessman was visited by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge after the
Birmingham Mail released shocking footage of the raid in the aftermath of the
riots.

More than 70 thugs, many of them children who could barely see over the counter,
had stormed into the store after smashing through the glass front door at the
height of the disorder on August 9.

Watch: Looters swarm over Machan Express kiosk

Many of the looters escaped within 60 seconds, but the owners were left with a
bill for damages and lost stock of more than £9,000.

Officers revealed that some of the youngsters who were arrested nearby were too
young to face prosecution.

A number of teenagers appeared in court after the riots and cannot be named for
legal reasons.

They included a 15-year-old boy, from Tile Cross, who pleaded guilty to stealing
13 packets of fruit gums and 21 Yorkie chocolate bars, worth just £20.40.

Other people convicted include a 14-year-old and two 16-year-olds.

WANTED: The Birmingham riots 2011 suspects still at large

Just one pane glass separated Steve Ebanks from rampaging thugs who attacked his
the Cyber Candy shop he managed with bricks, chairs and even bins.

He was one of just 150 people who received a special bravery awards from West
Midlands Police in the aftermath of the riots.

He was trapped inside the Bull Street store when it came under attack on the
first night of the riots.

Birmingham riots 2011: These CCTV videos exposes these 'rioters' as greedy
looters

The damaged front of Steve's store also became a defining image of the riots
when he painted a "Keep Calm and Candy On" message on the temporary wooden
hoardings.

The move led to the creation of a number of Facebook appreciation groups.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                             883 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Revolutionary court charges accused over Iran post-poll unrest

LENGTH: 2470 words


Text of unattributed news report headlined "Acts against country's security
through social unrest and collusion" published by Fars News Agency on 1 August

Acts against the country's security through social unrest and collusion to
disturb public security, presence in riot locations and distribution of CDs and
provocative statements, infliction of physical harm on officers and carrying,
keeping and throwing hand grenades are among the other accusations made against
the rioters.

According to Fars news agency, making and throwing of hand-made and incendiary
grenades by using the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) uniforms, rebelling
and attacking officers of the disciplinary forces while on duty, the University
dormitory incident are excuses for the presence of self-appointed [wilful]
forces in the riots. Acts against national security through social riots and
collusion with the intention of disturbing public security, presence in riot
locations and the distribution CDs and provocative statements, infliction of
physical harm on Basij officers while on duty, and acts against national
security by carrying and keeping grenades, were the final parts of the
indictment presented by Deputy Prosecutor-General of Tehran's public and
revolutionary courts on behalf of the public.

Making and throwing of hand-made and incendiary grenades wearing IRGC uniform

Mr Meysam Qorbani, son of Hojjatollah, who is one of the accused arrested in the
riots after the election, says in his confessions: In order to turn the street
demonstrations into riots, I decided to procure the material needed for building
hand-made grenades and I was successful in doing so. Once the grenades were
built, I used them in street riots but since I was worried about being
identified and arrested while carrying grenades, I procured an IRGC uniform and
used this cover for my own objectives.

Rebelling and attacking disciplinary forces officers while on duty

Mr Hoseyn Bastani Nezhad, son of Sharif, who is one of the accused who was
arrested in the street conflicts, says: As far as political background is
concerned, I was a supporter of the Tudeh [communist] party. The street
demonstrations after the election were a suitable means for me to increase my
presence and activity. In most of the illegal demonstrations, I was present as a
provocateur and I participated in the attack against Basij and Disciplinary
Forces.

The afore-mentioned individual was arrested when pictures of the accused while
throwing stones at the Disciplinary Forces were broadcast in the Islamic
Republic of Iran Broadcasting. The people informed the security forces of his
hiding place, so he was arrested.

The names of the other accused against whom similar accusations have been made
are reflected in the project.

Attacking military centres with incendiary material with the intention of
creating sedition and riots in society

Mr Mehdi Fattah Bakhsh, son of Hadi, who was arrested while committing a crime,
states: During the illegal demonstrations in Azadi Street, I proceeded to throw
stones and attack Disciplinary Forces officers. We then moved with a group of
rioters towards one of the Basij centres and by throwing stones and incendiary
materials, we set fire to the Samen-ol A'emmeh portable cabin headquarters of
district 115 of Leylatolqadr Basij but we were arrested by disciplinary and
security forces while committing this crime.

- Among the accused, Mr Musa Shah-Karami, son of Ebrahim, has engaged in
anti-security acts in the country by carrying Molotov cocktails and throwing
stones.

- Also, Mr Amir Shenavar, son of Khalil, who has a criminal record, proceeded to
throw stones at the disciplinary forces officers who were on duty. Under
influence of satellite networks, the accused proceeded to set fire to public and
private properties to disturb the city's security and order.

Discovery of several colt guns, numerous bullets and documents for connecting
with groups outside the country to fabricate documents against Iran's Islamic
system

Two colt guns along with a certain amount of ammunition, drugs, documents
proving communication with groups outside the country to create riots, evidence
and pamphlets which showed the provocation of people into riots and sedition,
were discovered from the home and workplace of Mr Mohammad Ali Dadkhah, the
spokesperson for the illegal human rights defence centre which played an
important role in initiating the riots.

University dormitory incident; a means for the presence of self-appointed
[wilful] officers in the riots

The bitter events, that happened during the election campaign period and
afterwards, provided the necessary conditions for rioting and the presence of
self-appointed forces in sensitive centres.

The bitter university dormitory incident was a blatant example of the presence
and manoeuvres of these self-appointed and seditionist elements. In the projects
defined by riot and crisis centres, universities and student dormitories hold a
special status. As a result of their understanding of the emotional bond between
society's different classes and university circles, the planners and leaders of
the soft overthrow project provided the conditions necessary for the
radicalization of the protest and for bringing them into the streets.

Undoubtedly, the university incident must be reviewed from the angle of a
calculated plot during which a deceived and manipulated group played parts. In
this incident, groups of Fada'yan-e Khalq [left-wing opposition group], the
Office for Fostering Unity, pan-Turkists, some of the members of Tehran
universities' Islamic societies and self-appointed forces were present.

A study of the number of individuals injured and those who were hospitalized
shows that the planners and executors of the sedition and riot project are even
prepared to sacrifice the children of this land to achieve their evil
objectives.

Action against country's security through social riots and collusion to disturb
public security

- Mr Omid Ja'farabadi, son of Abbas, who has a criminal record, was involved in
a clash with security and disciplinary forces while taking part in illegal
gatherings.

- Also, Mr Mohsen Ja'fari, son of Mohammad Hasan, who has two previous criminal
convictions in connection with drugs, acted against the country's security
through social unrest and collusion to disturb public security. The
afore-mentioned individual has thrown stones and attacked officers, chanted
slogans against the Islamic Republic of Iran's system and actively participated
in the clashes and setting fire to public and private properties.

- Mr Mohammad Reza Esma'ilzadeh, son of Qasem, who is addicted to crack, acted
against the country's security by taking part in illegal gatherings and street
riots.

- Mr Hamed Makkari-Anvar, son of Hamid, who is addicted to drugs, is also
accused of acting against the country's security and participated in illegal
demonstrations and street riots.

- Also, Farshid Qodrati, son of Ali Akbar, Sa'id Purazimy, son of Hasan, Rahim
Hemmati, son of Jamshid, Ehsan Honarkar, son of Reza, Farshid Karimi, son of
Ali, Meysam Saber, son of Mahmud, Alireza Qaribi, son of Mohammad Esma'il, Akbar
Qodrati, son of Baratali, Mohammad Hoseyn Kushkbaghi, son of Ali Akbar, Adrian
Keshishian, son of Rostam, Abbas Golzarniya, son of Qasem, Sahand Sabernezhad,
son Mohammad Hoseyn, Hoseyn Afshari, son of Hasan, Seyyed Hadi Shah-Velayati,
son of Ahmad, Mohammad Qanbari-Varnakeshi, son of Naqdali, Mehran Ahmadian, son
of Sadeq, Sa'id Qorbani, son of Gholamreza, Ahmad Sharifian, son of Abdollah,
Asghar Moshiri, son of Ali Hoseyn, Farzin Hadipur Abkenar, son of Faramarz,
Naser Abdolhoseyn, son of Gholamreza, Hamid Salahi, son of Reza, Mohsen Shokri,
son of Panjali, Alireza Qaderi, son of Fazlollah, Ramin Satkin, son of Adel,
Amir Rajabi, son of Sha'banali, Afshin Khosravipur, son of Hoseyn, Seyyed Ali
Seyyedzadeh, son of Jalal, Mohammad Nikzad, son of Ahmad and Ms Ma'edeh Sadat
Zakaryayi, son of Abolfazl who all have criminal records, acted against the
country's security by participating in illegal gatherings, disturbing public
order, propaganda activity against the system, casting doubts over the election
result by allegations of election rigging and creating public distrust towards
the government and the country's official authorities, acts against the
country's security through gathering and collusion with the intention to disrupt
public security.

Presence at riot locations and distribution of provocative CDs and pamphlets

- Mr Iman Sohrabpur, son of Kavus, distributed provocative CDs and pamphlets
among the people by taking part in riot scenes.

- The other accused is Mr Sa'id Sepanlu, son of Abolfazl, who has a criminal
record and by taking part in illegal gatherings, proceeded to distribute
provocative pictures.

Also Mr Hamid Reza Bakhtiyari, son of Ali, provoked others into participating in
the illegal gatherings by taking part in illegal gatherings and carrying
placards.

- The other accused Mr Abbas Yusef-Shahi, son of Azimollah, provoked the rioters
by carrying and distributing illegal pamphlets.

- Mr Mehrdad Aslani, son of Gholamreza, played a part in provoking riots by
sending messages to the BBC. The other accusation made against him is
participation in riots.

- Mr Morteza Bitaraf, son of Rahim, who took part in illegal gatherings, filmed
the riots and established a connection with foreign nationals.

Inflicting physical harm on Basij officers while on duty

- Mr Mehrdad Varsho'i, son of Naser, who has a criminal record proceeded to
inflict physical harm on Basij officers in Tehran's Azadi Street and pictures of
the accused while committing the crimes have been broadcast by the national
media.

- Also, Mr Faramarz Abdollah, son of Rahim, has participated in the attack
against Basij officers in Azadi Street as a rioter. The picture of the accused
while committing the crime has been published by the news media.

Action against the country's security by keeping and carrying grenades

Ms Ziba Asgari, daughter of Yadollah, has carried a hand grenade in illegal
gatherings in Azadi Street.

Also, Mohsen Abbasi-Montazeri, son of Mozaffar, along with the other accused Ms
Ziba Asgari, has collaborated in keeping and carrying grenades while
participating in the demonstrations and riots.

Participation in the destruction of and setting fire to government, public and
private properties

- Mr Kamran Jahanbani, son of Mehdiqoli, has confessed to starting fires in
Tehran's streets and thoroughfares deliberately.

- Mr Mehdi Moqimi, son of Ali, who has two previous criminal convictions was
present in Navvab Street, is one of agents involved in setting fire to public
and private properties. Pictures of the accused while setting fire to public and
private properties have been published in the media.

- Mr Ali Safayi, son of Yadollah, who resides in America, has been present in
demonstrations and riots, such as setting fire to the municipality's bus in
Larestan Street. Hallucinogens, drugs and alcoholic drinks have been discovered
in his house.

Disturbing public peace through riots and unrest

- Mr Ramtin Towfiq-Qazvini, son of Mansur, who is Baha'i [a sect band in Iran],
disturbed public peace and created fear and terror in society through
participation in illegal gatherings and unusual acts.

- Also, Mr Farid Ahmadi, son of Jalal, who has a criminal record of having
participated in the 18 Tir 1378 [9 July 1999] demonstrations and disturbed
public peace by taking part in illegal gatherings.

- Mr Akbar Ajdadi, son of Ali, who was carrying hallucinogens, took part in the
riots and threw stones at the officers of the disciplinary force.

- Also, Mr Hesam Tarmosi, son of Hamid, took part in the illegal gatherings and
threw stones at the officers of the disciplinary force.

- Farnash Farhadpur, daughter of Abdolhoseyn, took part in the illegal
gatherings and threw stones at the officers of the disciplinary force.

- Mas'ud Shemirani, one of the other accused, also took part in the riots and
threw stones at the officers of the disciplinary force.

Participation in illegal gatherings and invitation to sit-ins and demonstrations

Mr Ali Mohaddes, son of Ahmad, who was present in the illegal gatherings of
lecturers from Tehran and Amirkabir Universities invited them to sit-ins and
illegal gatherings. The afore-mentioned individual was also present in the
Tehran and Amirkabir Universities sit-ins.

Propaganda activity against the sacred system of the Islamic Republic of Iran
through participation in illegal gatherings and sending pictures and news
concerning the riots abroad to feed enemy media propaganda

- Ms Kiyana Sa'idfar, daughter of Ebrahim, took part in the illegal gatherings
as one of the rioting agents and proceeded to prepare news to send to satellite
networks.

- Mohammad Darmaneki-Farahani, son of Abbas, accused of insulting the system's
officials, causing public anxiety, provoking others in the gatherings, leading
the rioters by planning slogans, and also communication with foreign media and
networks by sending pictures and news.

The afore-mentioned person is connected with individuals in America, Canada,
Italy, Germany and Turkey and sent them the information regarding the riots.

- Mr Mehdi Moqimi, son of Mohammad Hasan, participated in the illegal
demonstrations and filmed the scenes of clashes.

- Ms Sara Ahmadi-Abhari, daughter of Mohammad Javad, who is a specialist in the
UN office in Tehran, carried pamphlets belonging to anti-revolution groups. She
participated in illegal gatherings and has filmed the scenes of clashes and
riots.

- The other accused is Mr Shahvar Saba, son of Mohsen, who has a criminal record
and proceeded to film the scenes of clashes by participating in the riots.

- Mr Mohammad Soleymanpur, son of Nosratollah, has participated in the illegal
gatherings and invited others to participate in illegal gatherings and proceeded
to take pictures and films from the gatherings for particular objectives.

The honourable head of Tehran's Islamic revolutionary court

After stating and explaining the recent plot and sedition which includes
planners, provocateurs, plotters, those connected with enemy and anti-revolution
groups as well as the interference, support and guidance by foreign intelligence
services and destructive measures by opportunists and rioters, I seek permission
to state - within the time frame announced by you - the individual indictment of
each of the accused, while mentioning the nature of the accusation, the reasons
and the evidence for issuing the appropriate sentence based on Articles 500,
610, 618, 677, 687 and 689 of the Islamic punishment law.

Deputy Prosecutor-General of Tehran's public and revolutionary courts

End of message

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0000gmt 01 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             884 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Star News (Wilmington, NC)

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday

Input is sought on 1898 document;
Community to get a say on report for General Assembly

BYLINE: Angela Mack, Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1A, 4A

LENGTH: 593 words


Hushed conversations and unspoken tales about the 1898 Wilmington Race Riot are
quickly becoming part of the past.

At the Cape Fear Museum Tuesday, community members gathered for a "conversation"
about the draft report that details the tragic, deadly coup d' etat that has yet
to become an official historic record in N.C. or U.S. fact books.

In May, the state-appointed commission charged with gathering data about the
event will present its final document to state lawmakers.

But before recommendations are made on how to address the information, members
want the community to have its say.

"What you have in this draft is what we can prove," said Rep. Thomas Wright,
D-New Hanover, who is chairman of the commission. "We will not send a document
forth to the legislature that is not accurate."

Recommenda-tions could include an apology from elected officials and inclusion
in educational textbooks.

People sitting in the predominately white audience said they viewed the report
as an accurate and objective work that tells both sides.

"I hear a balanced, equitable presentation," said Duplin County resident Ottis
King. "I've lived long enough to come to any historical event with an objective
mind."

LeRae Umfleet, the state archives researcher who has worked with the commission
since 2003, gave a synopsis of the report.

The nearly 500-page document, which includes appendices, photos and maps, is the
first to examine the riot's economic impact on Wilmington's black community and
the shift in the city's demographics after a number of black residents were
forced out of town.

"Wilmington was a model for how to have a riot," Umfleet said as she mentioned
that riots in Atlanta and Tulsa in the 1900s were modeled after the 1898 race
riot.

The audience addressed commission members with inquiries about the black
majority population in Wilmington during 1898, black resistance to the riots,
property loss, the role the city's railroad system had in the riots and the
overall goals of the report.

According to the report, 11,324 blacks and 8,731 whites lived in Wilmington in
1890. After the riots, those numbers began to dwindle.

Umfleet said there were efforts by the black community to resist against white
Democrats who forcefully sought to regain power.

"They tried different methods to try to combat," she said. Blacks, however, were
not allowed to purchase guns imported and sold in the area, she said.

"Resistance might have been an act of futility," said commission member and
historian John Haley. "This was a real act of conspiracy and insurgency. ... It
was planned, conspired and executed in the open. You need no better evidence."

Wilmington resident Chris Jeffery, who is division safety manager of CSX
Transportation, said he's willing to devote time to help the commission find
information about how Wilmington railroad companies aided in the 1898 riots.

"I think more people need to be involved," he said after Tuesday's event. "This
can provide closure to some people who had family members that went through this
atrocity."

Tuesday's community conversation was the second of four public information and
discussion sessions. The next event will in late March at the University of
North Carolina Chapel Hill. The final event will be at the University of North
Carolina Wilmington.

"This will not end in May 2006," said former Wilmington Mayor Harper Peterson, a
commission member. "I feel a personal responsibility to provide restitution.
Anybody that says let's put it behind us and move on is a disgrace."

Angela Mack: 343-2009

angie.mack@starnewsonline.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wright, Umfleet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             885 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 15, 2001 Tuesday
                                 State Edition

Fears for handcuffed detainee sparked Port Hedland riot

BYLINE: PENELOPE DEBELLE with KERRY TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 354 words


ADELAIDE

Friday's riot at the Port Hedland detention centre was triggered by fears for
the safety of a handcuffed Iranian asylum-seeker who resisted being taken into
isolation.

Claims that the man had been beaten by Australasian Correctional Management
guards were denied yesterday by the Federal Government. A spokesman said a
misunderstanding by detainees led to the riot.

The incident happened when five men were removed from the Port Hedland centre, a
converted mining camp in the Kimberley about 220 kilometres from Broome, and
taken to police lock-up in Port Hedland.

Asem Judeh, chairman of the Palestinian Refugees and Exile Awareness Association
in Melbourne, said he was rung twice from the Port Hedland camp by a source who
told him one of the men was beaten. In response the riot had broken out, he
said.

Mr Judeh said he was told the person was aged 15 or younger and this contributed
to the situation.

He said he was told that a dispute between detainees - which the Department of
Immigration and Multicultural Affairs says caused the riot - had been resolved
three days earlier.

During the riot asylum-seekers threw stones and damaged buildings. The group was
brought under control when ACM staff sprayed tear gas.

Steve Ingram, a spokesman for Immigration Minister Philip Ruddock, said
yesterday five people had been taken to the Port Hedland lock-up on Friday and
one of them had resisted removal.

He said someone had started screaming that officers were beating them and the
riot had begun. Mr Ruddock said yesterday there was no need for an inquiry into
the riot.

It is believed the five men were still being held yesterday without charges at
the Port Hedland police lock-up.

Prime Minister John Howard said yesterday the Federal Government would not be
intimidated by rioting illegal immigrants at detention centres.

"There is no way that a government I lead is going to bow to the intimidation
involved in those riots," he told Sydney radio station 2UE.

Opposition Leader Kim Beazley stood by his calls for an inquiry but labelled the
riot disgraceful and urged detainees to realise that rioting did not help their
cause.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detainees show their anger at Port Hedland. Picture: CHANNEL
SEVEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2001 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             886 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday

Riot charges will top G20, chief expects;
Vancouver police promise that, unlike in Toronto, indictments over Stanley Cup
protests will stick

BYLINE: Niamh Scallan Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 536 words


Vancouver's police chief has promised that the number of charges laid against
Stanley Cup rioters will eventually top those from Toronto's G20 protests - and
those charges will stick, he said.

"They charged 317 people (at the G20) . . . we're going to exceed that," Chief
Jim Chu said during a live webcast with the public Thursday night.

A crowd of more than 100,000 people dissolved into mayhem after the Canucks lost
Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final on June 15. Rioters smashed downtown Vancouver
storefronts, torched 15 cars - including two police cruisers - and vandalized 58
downtown businesses. Half of those stores were looted.

In three hours, rioters had caused millions of dollars in damage.

The Vancouver Police Department assembled a riot investigation team in the days
after the riot to sift through tens of thousands of photos, tips and videos of
suspected rioters. Since then, police have arrested 12 people and 70 others have
turned themselves in - but no one has been charged.

Chu defended the pace of the investigation, saying a rushed process could see
suspected rioters walk free.

"If you rush this, you can have lots of charges dropped. And that's what
happened in Ontario," he said.

In Toronto, 188 of the 317 people who faced charges following the G20 in June
2010 have had their charges stayed, withdrawn or dismissed.

Following the webcast, Vancouver Police Department spokesman Lindsey Houghton
said Chu did not aim to draw parallels between the Stanley Cup riot and other
politically charged riots and protests - such as the G20 in Toronto.

"The connection was based on the size and scope of the event, not the underlying
issues around the event," he said. "It's really only the number of people that
were charged that he's talking about."

Since June 15, riot investigation team members - 48 officers and 10 civilians
from across the region - have been sifting through an "overwhelming" amount of
evidence to compile cases against suspects, Chu said.

In early September, police announced they had names for 1,120 suspects.

Riot investigation head Inspector Les Yeo said his team planned to bring 1,600
hours of video from the riot to Indianapolis, Ind., to have the footage
processed by a team of experts.

"Our diligence and thoroughness will ensure that we lay the highest number of
charges and obtain the greatest number of convictions with the most severe
penalties," he said in a press release.

The team plans to recommend charges against 40 suspects by Oct. 31. "Please be
patient," Chu said. "You will see hundreds of people charged, I guarantee that."

During the webcast, Chu drew comparisons to the way police handled themselves in
other riots in Canada and abroad - and praised officers who worked the night of
June 15 for the restraint used in dealing with rioters.

Chu said the Vancouver Police Department received one complaint after the June
15 riot that would be resolved in an "informal manner."

After last year's G20 weekend, the Office of the Independent Police Review
Director received 357 allegations of police misconduct.

317

People charged at Toronto G20 protests

188

Charges later stayed, withdrawn or dismissed

1,120

Identified as suspects

in Stanley Cup riot

0

People charged after Vancouver riot

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                             887 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           February 1, 2014 Saturday

Time running out;
Even after 30 years, cases relating to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots are not
proceeding in Delhi's trial courts. And the Congress cannot evade responsibility
for this

BYLINE: Edit

LENGTH: 603  words


Rahul Gandhi's baffling inability to apologise for the 1984 anti-Sikh riots
despite his leader and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh having already done so, has
once again trained the focus on the Congress' culpability for the riots. The
emotional response of the Sikhs protesting in Delhi cannot be simplistically
described as Akali Dal or SGPC supporters leveraging the issue to put the
Congress on the backfoot. Despite 442 rioters being convicted by Delhi courts
for various offences in the past 30 years, the Sikh community cannot be faulted
for harbouring a genuine grievance. Witness accounts of the riots allege the
active involvement of Delhi Congress leaders and party cadre in fanning the
riots. The Congress cannot escape the blame for the inability of the criminal
justice system to punish these leaders.

The failure of successive governments in investigating and prosecuting a
majority of the 3,000 murders, committed over three days in Delhi, remains a
blot on India's human rights record. As many as 10 commissions and committees
inquired into various aspects of the riots including the death toll, role of the
police, the failure to register cases and record witness statements, and
identifying Congressmen, police officials and other civilians complicit in the
riots. Between 1984 and 2005, the Marwah commission, Misra commission,
Kapur-Mittal committee, Jain-Banerjee committee, Potti-Rosha committee,
Jain-Aggarwal committee, Ahuja committee, Dhillon committee, Narula committee,
and finally the Nanavati commission, inquired into the riots. Most of these
inquiries were folded up before completion of their reports or their findings
were rejected by the Rajiv Gandhi and the PV Narasimha Rao governments.

This is where Rahul Gandhi's contention that the Congress government did not
abet the 1984 rioting is on shaky ground. The party's actions in the aftermath
of the riots have only aided in the destruction of evidence, coercion of
witnesses and the consequent weakening of cases. Among the Congress leaders who
have been linked to the riots are Sajjan Kumar, Jagdish Tytler, HKL Bhagat and
Lalit Maken. The miscarriage of justice on one hand has been vitiated by the
repeated attempts of the Congress party to rehabilitate Sajjan and Tytler.
Their recent attempts to re-enter electoral politics have not fructified - not
because of any show of contrition by the Congress, but because of the outrage
that offering tickets to them generated. Rahul's hesitant concession in the
televised interview that "some Congressmen were probably involved", only to
recover his poise and lay the onus on the country's legal system, typifies the
Congress' insensitivity to the riots.

When a country keeps travelling back in time to 1984 ever so often it is because
the criminal justice system failed the Sikhs despite the sheer magnitude of the
carnage. The Delhi Sessions court that acquitted Sajjan Kumar last year found
the testimony of the witnesses - Jagdish Kaur, Jagsher Singh and Nirpreet Kaur -
trustworthy while convicting five other co-accused. The court, however, was not
inclined to believe the testimony of these three witnesses that they saw and
heard Sajjan Kumar inciting mobs. Now, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has
demanded the setting up of a Special Investigation Team to inquire into the
riots. Many witnesses are dead and the living are unwilling to re-enter the
legal cesspool again for fear of intimidation and disappointment. The SIT must
have a specific mandate - investigating the role of senior Congress politicians;
this could be the last chance before time wipes out all evidence.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             888 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New riot act would nip this trouble in the bud;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 604 words


IN THE wake of the recent riots in cities throughout Britain, I propose an
updated Riot Act, fit for the 2010s.

It would consist of the following: ¦ Within minutes of a potential problem
developing, the Prime Minister can 'read' the new Riot Act, which would remain
in effect for 12 hours and can be repeated at any time.

¦ Under the terms of the act, the Human Rights Act would be temporarily repealed
along with health and safety constraints on the emergency services. Police
officers would be guaranteed immunity from prosecution, either criminal or
private, for acts carried out against rioters or looters.

¦ Police would guarantee to use nondeadly force where possible.

¦ The calling of the Riot Act provisions should be put on Facebook and Twitter,
which is almost guaranteed to reach all the rioters.

Those who are not subscribers can walk into any police station at any time,
explain they are the sort of person who is likely to cause mayhem, give in their
mobile phone number and receive a text alert that the Riot Act has been called.

¦ Once the Riot Act has been called, any people in the vicinity of the riot, who
cannot prove they live there or work there, will be deemed to be taking part,
even if they are only rubber-necking.

¦ Under the terms of the act, it will be temporarily illegal to wear any form of
hoody or scarf hiding the face.

¦ Once in custody, instead of being rushed through the court system, they should
be allowed to sit in a small cell, on their own, without any form of
distraction, for 48 hours before being taken to court.

This would allow them to ponder their actions and to 'come down' from any
illegal or legal substances they may have taken.

¦ The only people allowed to go into the cell to see them, other than the police
or prison officer, should be a doctor to make sure they are not sick or injured
and a solicitor.

But no legal aid shall be available for any public order offences committed
while the Riot Act is in force. ¦ Under the terms of the act the police will
have the power, without the need for a warrant, to search the home, car and
other premises belonging to the detainee or his/her family for stolen property,
illegal substances and evidence of incitement to riot.

Their computers and laptops may be seized for later analysis.

¦ If they are in work, details of the detainee's arrest will be immediately
forwarded to their employer.

If they are on benefits, these will be stopped until the outcome of their trial.
If they are found not guilty the benefits will be restored. If they are
convicted, they will be used to pay off any fines.

¦ Fingerprints and DNA samples will be taken from all those arrested and matched
against unsolved crimes. They will be kept on file contrary to the Human Rights
Act.

The act, once passed, will be explained to young people in schools throughout
Britain in the following way.

Think of rioting and looting and arson like a gang from a rival estate coming to
your estate and 'dissing' you. Would you expect them to hide behind civil rights
laws and a justice system designed for people who respect the rule of law? Well,
the police are our gang. They belong to us, the law-abiding citizens of Great
Britain who don't think it's their God-given right to be given a job, benefits,
and carte blanche to smash 'our' estate up.

So the police will treat you in the way that you treat each other. And if you
don't like it, tough. Simply stay away from riot areas, don't loot shops, don't
lob bricks, don't burn down houses, don't mug injured students, don't drive you
car over people protecting their homes and businesses... and you'll be fine.

PAUL LEVIE Torquay

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2011 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                             889 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

'84 riots: AAP MLA Jarnail Singh breaks down as emotions run high

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 491  words


He urged Speaker Ram Niwas Goel to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to
expedite the investigation in the over three decades old riot cases.

Jarnail Singh, the MLA from Rajouri Garden, broke down in the Delhi Assembly on
Tuesday while giving an emotional account of how his family members were killed
in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. While moving a resolution on the 1984 riots, which
was adoped by the Assembly, he urged Speaker Ram Niwas Goel to write to Prime
Minister Narendra Modi to expedite the investigation in the over three decades
old riot cases.

The resolution demanded that the Central government take immediate cognizance of
"recent revelations" made against Congress leader Jagdish Tytler, about his
alleged involvement in the violence.

Singh was unable to fight back his tears as he said, "This question is related
to our honour. What answers will we give our children when they ask what
happened to the perpetrators of the attacks? After 23 years of filing FIRs,
there is no chargesheet in the case. Has this happened in any other case? Let
these cases be re-opened. On our behalf, Speakerji, you please write to the PM
and seek an appointment with him".

Hari Nagar MLA Jagdeep supported also recounted the agonising ordeal he went
through during that period. "A 13-year-old boy went from one police station to
another, checking every corpse, looking for his father. That boy is now 45. I
was that boy," he said.

Pointing towards the three BJP MLAs in the House, he said, "If the three of them
have a heart, let all 70 of us (Delhi MLAs) go to (Narendra) Modiji and seek
speedy justice."

Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal assured the MLAs, "Our government will do
everything it can for the rehabilitation of the victims of these riots. We will
provide free legal aid to those who need it."

Though India had witnessed many riots, mose of them were "political riots", said
Kejriwal. "Not one culprit has been punished. There have been commissions and
witnesses have been influenced and threatened. If harsh punishments had been
meted out to those guilty of the 1984 riots, there would have been no riots in
2002 (Gujarat)," he said.

Singh referred to a document which, he claimed, was a statement made before the
CBI by Abhishek Verma, one of the accused in the Navy war room leak case. "The
statement says that Tytler tried to send money to a prime witness, who was in
Canada, in the (Pulbangash) case. He should be booked under Section 193 and 195A
of the IPC for influencing and bribing a witness," Singh said.

The resolution also stated that all the compensation for the next of kin of the
riot victims needed to be disbursed immediately.

In response to Singh's plea, the Speaker said, "I am saddened to tell you that
the hands of this House are tied. It has been 31 years but justice has not been
delivered. There is nothing more shameful than that. I had asked (the PM) for
time earlier but could not get an appointment. But I will try again."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             890 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday

Vancouver riots have Canadians blushing;
Vancouver riots after the city's Canucks ice hockey team lost Game 7 of the
Stanley Cup finals have embarrassed a nation that doesn't see much
sports-related violence.

BYLINE: Anita Elash Correspondent

LENGTH: 464 words


Canadians are perplexed, embarrassed, and angry today after the Vancouver
Canucks' Stanley Cup loss to the Boston Bruins last night led to post-game riots
in one of the country's most beautiful cities.

Although Canadians are stalwart sports fans, violence related to sports is rare
in this country and when it does happen, post-riot finger-pointing generally
becomes even more popular than hockey.

Even as Vancouver tried to assess the damage, two post-riot Facebook pages were
set up, one asking people to tag photos of the rioters to help police track them
down and another organizing a city-wide clean-up effort. Media outlets condemned
the rioters as "dolts" and "goons."

Matt Gurney, a member of the editorial board for the Postmedia chain of
newspapers, says the entire nation was embarrassed by the riots and the
international attention it has attracted. [Editor's note: The original version
of this story misidentified the newspaper chain where Gurney works.]

"There's nothing cultural about Vancouver that could explain this. It's not a
rough industrial city," he says. "It takes a lot to provoke a Canadian so when
the rest of us are looking at them and saying, 'You people are idiots,' they
have to concede the point."

The fact that the Vancouver Canucks had made it into the Stanley Cup finals was
a point of national pride across Canada. The 41-year-old team has never won the
Stanley Cup and this was only the second time it had made it to the Stanley Cup
finals. Riots in Vancouver also followed the team's previous Stanley Cup loss,
in 1994.

Last night, at least 70,000 fans gathered in downtown Vancouver to watch the
game on video screens. Trouble started as soon as the game ended.

Fans inside the area booed and threw bottles and cups of beer onto the ice as
NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman presented the cup to Bruins' captain Zdeno Chara.
Outside, fans overturned cars and set them on fire, smashed store windows and
got into knife fights. More than 100 people were injured.

Some reports said police were slow to respond to the first signs of trouble and
that riot police struggled to handle the crowd. Mr. Gurney says it appeared the
police were unprepared, despite the fact there had been post-game riots in 1994.

"I was not surprised to see what happened. Every time there was a goal, people
on Facebook would post, 'Oh, oh, imminent riot,' " he says.

One columnist blamed the Canucks hockey team for its fans' viciousness. Damien
Cox wrote in The Toronto Star that the team's coach believes the NHL is out to
get the Canucks.

"There are many here who also fervently believe Toronto, and the rest of Canada,
hates Vancouver and wants the Canucks to lose, which again fuels this bizarre
sense of paranoia that permeates the hockey atmosphere in this town," he wrote.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                             891 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 16, 2002

Anniversary of reading Riot Act;
 Latimer's Diary

SECTION: Features :General :Columnist, Pg.11

LENGTH: 278 words


WORD has reached me of a rather apt commemoration of the Bristol riots of 1831.

The 171st anniversary of the riots are apparently to be marked by a "memorial
pub crawl".

Being a model of temperance - I only imbibe the odd sip for medicinal purposes -
I don't know who is behind the event, which will be preceded by the reading of
descriptions of key events during the riots.

This is taking place at 8.30pm on October 26 at the Hanging Gate of the New Gaol
in Cumberland Road.

Five rioters were hanged from the gate of the prison, which was stormed during
the riots.

A memorial pub crawl does seem an apt way to mark the riots of October 1831.

Very few uprisings have probably been fuelled by overindulgence in fine wines,
ports and sherries, but the drinks' role in the Bristol riots is not in
question.

It was the year of the great electoral reform bill and Charles Wetherall, the
Bristol Recorder and anti-reformist, was staying at the Lord Mayor's mansion in
Queen Square.

This prompted a crowd of reformers to gather, panicking the Lord Mayor, who read
the Riot Act. Inflamed, the crowd became a violent mob and the riot spread.

At one point, the mob broke into the Mansion House's cellars and "sampled" its
fine wines and sherries before beginning a systematic plunder of the square,
removing huge quantities of wines from the merchants' cellars.

The following morning the Bristol Journal reported that "in various parts lay
several of the rioters, in the last stages of senseless intoxication and with
countenances more resembling fiends than men".

Not a riot, more like Saturday night in Bristol city centre I'd say.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press


                             892 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday

Amarinder's remark insult to anti-Sikh riot victims: Phoolka

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: Chandigarh


Chandigarh, Nov. 22 -- Lawyer and crusader for justice to anti-Sikh riots'
victims, H S Phoolka on Saturday said Congress leader Amarinder Singh's remark
against him was an insult to the victims of the 1984 carnage.

Phoolka also charged the former Punjab Chief Minister with speaking in favour of
anti-Sikh riots accused Jagdish Tytler and Kamal Nath in order to grab the post
of Punjab Congress president.

"Amarinder has leveled an allegation against me that I have been making false
statements pertaining to 1984 riots to grab the headlines in newspapers. By
saying so, Amarinder has insulted the victims of anti-Sikh riots," Phoolka said
while addressing media.

"Before making such allegations, you must have thought about the victims who
have been fighting their cases for so long," said Phoolka, who had resigned from
all posts held in Aam Aadmi Party in September but remains a member.

On November 19, Phoolka had demanded that former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi be
stripped of Bharat Ratna award as he had "justified" the killings in the over
three-decade old riots.

Rejecting the charge, Amarinder had said he did not take his demands seriously.
"He (Phoolka) has been raising such things to get in the news for the last 31
years," Amarinder had said.

Phoolka alleged that Amarinder in an interview to a newspaper in May 2010 had
said that Jagdish Tytler and Kamal Nath were wrongly implicated in anti-Sikh
riot case.

"A leader like you, who became Chief Minister, MLA... does not have the time to
meet the victims of anti-sikh riots and is giving clean chit to Jagdish Tytler
and Kamal Nath (in anti-Sikh riot cases) just to get the post of PPCC Chief," he
said.

He also asked Amarinder to prove that a video of Rajiv Gandhi's speech delivered
on November 19, 1984 at Boat Club on Indira Gandhi's birth anniversary was not
authentic.

In the video grab which was shown to media here today, Gandhi was purportedly
seen saying, "when the big tree falls, the earth shakes", an apparent reference
to the anti-Sikh riots.

Phoolka, who unsuccessfully contested 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Ludhiana,
asked Amarinder to prove that he (Phoolka) had given wrong statements and that
Jagdish Tytler was wrongly implicated, within 15 days. "Otherwise, I will
intensify my campaign against him," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             893 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday

Modi's puppy remark is as bad as Rajiv's 'when a tree falls' comment

BYLINE: Diptosh Majumdar

LENGTH: 717  words


The BJP has come up with a remarkably innovative statement to dilute the impact
of Narendra Modi's crassly insensitive "puppy" analogy in the context of the
2002 post-Godhra riots. If the Reuters interview will remain in public mind for
a very long time, it will be because the BJP's Prime Ministerial hopeful felt as
saddened by the riots as he would have been if his car had run over a puppy. The
party's central leadership explained away the unfeeling remark by insisting it
brought out Modi's "compassion", how even a puppy's death caused him
discomfiture and pain.

However much the BJP tries, the tactless and inconsiderate "puppy" comparison
unveils a mind that simply does not know how to grieve the mindless slaughter of
hundreds under his watch. Modi worshippers on the Internet have argued that even
Hindus have died in those riots but the question that was posed to the Gujarat
chief minister carried the obvious assumption that Muslims had borne the brunt
of the attacks. Gujarat riots did take a toll of Hindus - no doubt about it. But
it was a majority of Muslims who paid the ultimate price with their lives. It
was their massacre that makes the memory of those riots as shameful as it has
always been for the past 11 years.

It wasn't any ordinary riot spectator who had been asked this question. Narendra
Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat in February 2002 and his position was at
the top of the command chain. He was at the helm of affairs. The question is:
would he have said the same thing had he been asked how he had felt about the
Godhra victims who were all Hindus?

Here is a chief minister, who has blundered in the way Rajiv Gandhi had erred by
putting forward the "big tree" analogy to describe the riots after Indira
Gandhi's assassination nearly 30 years ago. In this same interview, Modi doesn't
hesitate in describing himself as a "Hindu nationalist". Modi is unabashedly
Hindu first and the BJP wants us to entrust him with the running of a diverse
republic like India.

To infer what he really meant, let us just re-examine what he had precisely told
the Reuters journalists. "The Supreme Court created a special investigative team
(SIT) and top-most, very bright officers who oversee the SIT. That report came.
In that report, I was given a thoroughly clean chit, a thoroughly clean chit."
After insisting that he had been absolved, he went on to say, "Another thing,
any person if we are driving a car, we are a driver, and someone else is driving
a car and we're sitting behind, even then if a puppy comes under the wheel, will
it be painful or not? Of course it is. If I'm a chief minister or not, I'm a
human being. If something bad happens anywhere, it is natural to be sad."

If one carefully reads the analogy, one can understand how he tries to suggest
that he wasn't the driver during the riots. Somebody else was driving. He was
only sitting behind. So, if there was anybody responsible it was the policemen
and others who were charged with the maintenance of law and order everywhere in
his state. It was far from his fault. He was only "sitting behind". And that it
pains him that while these others were driving the vehicle, a puppy came under
the brutal tyres. Every form of life is undoubtedly respectable as Modi tweeted
later but to compare the dehumanised madness of a riot with a puppy coming under
the wheel is to dismiss a meticulously planned man-made tragedy as a trivial
accident. So, in Modi's vocabulary a riot is an accident which is often
unavoidable.

For Modi, "it is natural to be sad" but unnatural to condemn or deplore the
riots, even more unnatural to own up responsibility. He will never say sorry. He
will belittle the global impact of the heinous Gujarat riots by comparing it
with a puppy coming under the wheels but he will never shed a tear for the
killing of hundreds whose primary right to life was actually his responsibility.
Modi will go this far and no farther. If you push him, he will make a joke of it
and ridicule the riots and the burning of people alive. His opponents are not
really overdoing it when they take umbrage over the fact that Modi compared the
majority Muslims killed in the riots to puppies and by obvious extension to
dogs. Modi is a great communicator. It is difficult to believe he did not mean
what he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             894 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           January 14, 2006 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

1906 ATLANTA RACE RIOT REMEMBERED: City's bloody stain seen with new eyes

BYLINE: JIM AUCHMUTEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1035 words


On a humid Saturday night in 1906, an Atlanta newsboy named Mendel Romm went
downtown to pick up papers for delivery. He talked about what he saw for the
rest of his life.

"When he got to Five Points, they were having a race riot," says his son,
77-year-old Mendel Romm Jr. of Buckhead. "They were pulling people off the
streetcars and lynching them right there. My father was so scared he ran all the
way home."

The 1906 Atlanta Race Riot is the closest thing to a race war that has ever
happened in this city.

For four days that September, white mobs attacked black people in a fit of
hysteria over exaggerated and erroneous reports of sex crimes against white
women. Then blacks started fighting back. When the dust settled, at least two
dozen people were dead, and Atlanta's reputation as a paragon of New South
moderation had taken a beating in the eyes of the world.

Now a group of Atlantans wants to commemorate the riot --- and try to learn from
it --- on the occasion of its centennial.

The Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot first met a year and a half
ago in the fellowship hall of old Ebenezer Baptist, the Rev. Martin Luther King
Jr.'s church. This weekend, as the nation celebrates the King holiday, the
coalition is beginning a series of public events leading up to an exhibition at
the King National Historic Site in May and a symposium at Georgia State
University's Rialto Center for the Performing Arts in September.

Window on race relations

Organizers say they aren't trying to shame Atlanta; they just want to deal with
a significant but largely forgotten chapter of its past.

"Race relations are such an important part of this city," says Andy Ambrose,
deputy director of the Atlanta History Center and co-curator of the exhibition.
"It's important to explore all of that, positive and negative. Atlanta is more
than what the slogans say."

From its initial meetings, the coalition has grown to include 150 participants
from an array of local universities, cultural institutions, faith groups and
governments.

Some of the participants had never heard of the riot before they were invited to
get involved. That didn't surprise one of the group's leaders, Saudia Muwwakkil,
spokeswoman for the King site. "They never taught us about this in school," the
Atlanta native says.

That should change next year, when Georgia's revised public school curriculum
will require that the riot be taught in eighth-grade social studies.

Memories handed down

Not everyone has forgotten about the ugliness of 1906. In some old Atlanta
families --- especially African-American ones --- riot stories have been handed
down like hushed warnings.

At 77, June Dobbs Butts of Decatur is the youngest daughter of John Wesley
Dobbs, one of Atlanta's most prominent black leaders before the civil rights era
and the grandfather of its first black mayor, Maynard Jackson. Dobbs was a
newlywed living on Auburn Avenue when the riot broke out. To protect his home
from the mobs that were rampaging through the city, he sat up for several
nights, stationed behind his front door with a revolver in hand.

"My father always told us about the riot," says Butts, who will be part of the
panel discussion at 1 p.m. today at Javaology, a coffeehouse on Edgewood Avenue.
"He called it 'the horror.' He was terribly angry about it. He never got over
it."

Rumors of crimes

The riot erupted on the night of Sept. 22, 1906, after several weeks of
sensational press reports about black-on-white crime. A crowd formed around Five
Points and started attacking black people at random --- barbers, streetcar
riders, a Western Union messenger. The victims were shot, stabbed, bludgeoned.
One was thrown to his death from the Forsyth Street bridge. Police and fire
hoses were unable to stop the brutality.

"It was a pitched battle that lasted four hours," says GSU historian Cliff Kuhn,
who interviewed some of the last eyewitnesses and is leading a walking tour of
riot sites at 1 p.m. Sunday in Woodruff Park.

Over the next three days, the disturbances spread to other parts of Atlanta,
where black residents, who had smuggled guns into the city, started firing back.

A panicked exodus

In the aftermath, historians estimate, as many as 1,000 black Atlantans fled the
city and never returned. White leaders convened a summit with black clergy and
businessmen. But for the most part, the riot was swept under the rug. It was
scarcely remembered half a century later when Atlanta billed itself as "the city
too busy too hate."

"The black community wanted to forget about the riot, too," says Clarissa
Myrick-Harris, a historian at Clark Atlanta University and vice president of One
World Archives. "They wanted to move forward."

Memorial considered

In a state teeming with Civil War markers, there is no state historical marker
about the riot. Coalition members would like to see one commemorating the
victims, but confirming their names --- or even their number --- has proved
difficult. The coroner reported 12 deaths at the time, a figure historians
regard as far too low. Three books about the riot published since 2001 place the
toll between 25 and 50.

The coalition is not calling for a truth commission or a government inquest like
the one that recently presented its report on a bloody 1898 race riot in
Wilmington, N.C.

The group is patterning its observance on other communities that have used
incidents of racial violence to kindle a dialogue on race --- groups such as the
Moore's Ford Memorial Committee in Walton County, which organized to commemorate
a notorious quadruple lynching in 1946.

No verdicts but history's

Andrew Sheldon, an Atlanta jury consultant who helped win convictions in the
1963 Birmingham church bombing and the murder of civil rights leader Medgar
Evers, knows his involvement in the coalition will not lead to similar
prosecutions. He's interested in a broader sort of remedial justice this time.

"Every city that has had racial violence like this is still affected by it,"
Sheldon says. "You see it in the patterns of segregation, in the attitudes, in
the fears people feel on both sides. Something like this riot slips out of
memory, and people assume things have always been the way they are. But there
are reasons."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenan Research Center of the Atlanta History CenterSUNDAY, SEPT.
23, 1906: On the morning after a white mob went on a rampage against blacks,
Peachtree Street was under the control of the state militia. But the unrest
simply spread elsewhere in the city, and it went on at some level for days.
Photo: LOUIE FAVORITE / StaffJune Dobbs Butts of Decatur, youngest daughter of
the late John Wesley Dobbs, was told by her father how he armed himself and kept
vigil at nights to protect his home from the 1906 rioters. Dobbs went on to
become one of the leading black citizens of Atlanta.
Photo: LOUIE FAVORITE / StaffHistory professors Cliff Kuhn of Georgia State
University and Clarissa Myrick-Harris of Clark Atlanta University tour some of
the sites of the 1906 riot. Many Atlantans have never heard of it.
Photo: LOUIE FAVORITE / StaffMendel Romm Jr. of Buckhead recalls hearing his
father, Mendel Sr., who was a newsboy in 1906, tell of the rampage he saw
against blacks in downtown Atlanta that fateful Sept. 22. The boy ran home in
terror.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2006 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             895 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            April 19, 1997, Saturday

Homebrew may have been factor in tension

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: DONEMAN P

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 437 words


HOMEMADE alcohol could have contributed to the tension leading up to this
month's Woodford jail riots, a union official said yesterday.

State Public Service Federation Union secretary Gordon Rennie said Woodford
prison officers had found 20 litres of "homebrew" in N wing a week before the
riot and eight litres on the day of the riot.

The wing in which the first batches were found was where prisoners started to
riot at the new medium and high security jail earlier this month.

Mr Rennie said officers had not reported any of the prisoners involved in the
riots being drunk but he could not discount the possibility, as homemade alcohol
often caused prisoners to become violent and "go off their trees".

"The officers raised finding the homebrews with management and I don't know why
it was not mentioned in the report into the riot. That is between Woodford
management and the report's inspectors," he said.

Police and Corrective Services Minister Russell Cooper said he had been informed
by Woodford management that four two-litre batches of homemade alcohol had been
found on the day of the riot but they had not been completely brewed and were
destroyed by staff.

"Prisoners are very cunning and resourceful people and that should never be
forgotten," Mr Cooper said yesterday.

Mr Rennie said he would reserve his judgment on the Government's report into the
riot until he had read the entire report, which was due next week.

"Based on the findings produced so far, the factors that caused the riot is on
top of what we have been telling them," he said.

"But they did not mention the absence of industry and programmes as a
contributing factor. That's just a polite way of saying we weren't up to speed
on that."

Mr Rennie said officers had presented jail management with a list of concerns,
including the absence of evacuation and fire procedures when the riot occurred.

Officers wanted more training in the restraint of inmates and to be kept better
informed by management about prisoners making threats against staff.

"Officers were also concerned about the amount of sugar made available to
prisoners because it is the main ingredient to make their homebrew," he said.
"The situation at the jail will need to be tightly controlled for some time."

The Prisoners Legal Service described the riot as "another example of the
Corrective Services not learning from previous mistakes".

Co-ordinator Laurie Cullinan said the QCSC board's decision to stand down
director-general Keith Hamburger was the only appropriate and responsible action
that could be taken by a publicly accountable body.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             896 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           January 29, 2014 Wednesday

Rahul's remarks on '84 riots irk Punjab

LENGTH: 1202 words

DATELINE: chandigarh


chandigarh, Jan. 29 -- A day after the Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi
admitted that 1984 anti-Sikh riots were "absolutely wrong" and "some Congressmen
were involved," his remarks prompted criticism not only in political, but
religious circles too.

Leading the attack on Gandhi scion for his comments on 1984 riots, the Shiromani
Akali Dal has asked the Sikh community to "boycott" the Congress. The ruling
party in Punjab also maintained that it would "examine the possibility of legal
course of action against Congress". On the other hand, the Congress came out in
its youth leader's defence blaming the SAD for trying to "distort" Rahul
Gandhi's "honest and straightforward" remarks on the sensitive issue.

Rahul Gandhi, during a candid TV interview on Monday, asserted that violence
that broke out against Sikhs in Delhi following the assassination of his
grandmother, former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, in 1984, in which almost 3,000
lost their lives, was different from the religious riots in the western State of
Gujarat, where 1,000 people, mainly Muslims, died.

"The difference was that in 1984, the Government was trying to stop the riots.
In Gujarat, the opposite was the case. The Government in Gujarat was actually
abetting and pushing the riots further," he had added. Slamming Rahul Gandhi,
Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal has advised the Congress party to
"seek forgiveness" from the nation through a resolution in the Parliament.

"Now that Gandhi has admitted to Congress hand in the riots, he should ask his
party or the Central Government to seek an apology from the nation by passing a
resolution in the Parliament," Badal said while talking to the media persons in
Tarn Taran. "In the past, its leaders have tendered individual apologies for the
riots, but not once has the Congress passed a resolution at the party forum to
express regret. I doubt whether the Congress will ever pass such a resolution at
the party level or in Parliament," he added. Besides Rahul, his mother and
All-India Congress Committee chief Sonia Gandhi had earlier expressed regret
over the riots. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had also expressed regret over
riots in the Parliament during his first term, but he did not move a formal
resolution as was then demanded by the Akali Dal.

Calling upon the Sikh community to boycott the Congress, SAD chief and Punjab
Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Badal said that it was condemnable Rahul Gandhi
did not even bother to tender an apology to the community for the genocide.

"While Rahul Gandhi has added insult to the injured sentiments of Sikh
community, his utterances have given a ground to the Court to take suo motu
action on his confessional statement which is nothing short of self admission of
the barbaric crimes of Congressmen in anti Sikh genocide," he added, while
taking to media persons in Amritsar. Sukhbir also added that the Akali Dal would
examine the possibility of legal course of action against the Congress.
Expressing shock at Rahul's refusal to apologize despite confession, Sukhbir
questions the Congress' "moral and constitutional right to stay in power at the
Center".

"After 30 years of denial by his party and family, Rahul has finally spoken what
the entire world has always known as the truth - that the Congress party and the
Union government led by his father late Rajiv Gandhi had presided over execution
of the most beastly massacre of innocents in the streets of the national capital
in 1984," said Sukhbir.

Sukhbir also asked all the Punjab Congressmen to resign en masse after Rahul
Gandhi's open admission. "What are you doing in the Congress whose principal
figure admits to party's hands being red with blood of innocent Sikhs. If the
likes of Partap Singh Bajwa have any conscience at all, they should step down
and offer apologies to the people for their continuance in that party for so
many years," said Sukhbir.

Assailing Gandhi for his remarks contrasting Gujarat riots with anti-Sikh riots,
SAD leader and MP Naresh Gujaral alleged that Congress had shielded individuals
who were involved in the "carnage" against Sikhs. "Rahul Gandhi says that
Narendra Modi was responsible for the 2002 riots in Gujarat because he was the
Chief Minister. Then what about his father who was the Prime Minister when the
carnage against Sikhs took place in Delhi," Gujral said.

He maintained that several prominent people, including his father IK Gujral -
the former Prime Minister, Retd General JS Aurora, former Air Force chief Arjan
Singh, repeatedly went to the then President and the Home Minister during 1984
riots in Delhi, but both of them expressed helplessness. "The police in Delhi
did not fire even a single bullet at the rioters and there was delay in calling
the Army in during the 1984 riots," he added. Terming Rahul Gandhi's revelations
as "shocking", Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president and
SAD's Delhi unit chief Manjit Singh GK said that it was "clear cut acceptance of
involvement of the Congress party in a "planned massacre".

"It is really shameful that it took Congress party 30 years to accept that some
Congress leaders were involved.and by doing this, Gandhi is trying to act as a
statesman at a time when Congress' defeat in the ensuing parliament elections is
imminent. Such gimmicks now would not help Congress in elections," said GK. He
said that it was high time Rahul Gandhi and his Congress party "ensured
punishment" against those involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Defending the party's national vice-president, former Chief Minister and
permanent invitee to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) Capt Amarinder Singh
lashed out at the SAD leadership, particularly the Badal duo, for "trying to
distort the comments". "Nothing can be more preposterous than the Akalis seeking
Rahul Gandhi's apology for 1984 riots..Rahul Gandhi was a small boy of 13 years
when the riots took place. How can you blame someone for something he is not
even remotely associated with?" asked Capt Amarinder, while advising the Akalis
not to distort and misinterpret honest and straightforward remarks made by Rahul
Gandhi.

Capt Amarinder said that the Akalis should rather acknowledge that Rahul Gandhi
had been fair in his interview by not shying away from the issue and not
defending any of the accused. Moreover, the senior Congress leader pointed out
that the Congress president Sonia Gandhi had gone to Darbar Sahib with him twice
- first when he was the Punjab Congress president and later as the Chief
Minister - where she expressed deep regrets over what happened in 1984. Later
the Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh apologized in the Parliament, he added.

Former Chief Minister also rapped the BJP leaders for trying to justify 2002
Gujarat riots. "One wrong cannot justify another wrong," he asserted, while
asking the BJP leaders, if they have the moral courage as the way they are
trying to take a high moral ground, they should ask their Prime Ministerial
candidate to apologise in the same manner.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             897 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday

Govt must reveal what caused riots

BYLINE: A SRINIVASA RAO

LENGTH: 662  words


NORMALCY has returned to the old city of Hyderabad after two weeks of communal
tension. The police completely lifted the curfew under 25 police station limits
on Monday.

People are still wondering what had gone wrong with Hyderabad suddenly. For,
there have not been any communal riots here for almost one and a half decades;
the last time the city witnessed major communal clashes was after the demolition
of the Babri Masjid at Ayodhya. Though there have been a few instances of
communal strife, the situation was brought under control within a few hours,
without any need to impose curfew.

Since this historic city attained a global image of being a hub of information
technology and got transformed into a hi- tech city, there has been a major
change in the mindset of the people. The youth in the old city have become more
career oriented and communal issues do not really evoke their interest. For the
last few years, there have been several instances of people displaying communal
harmony - of Hindus participating in Muharram processions and Muslim groups
making arrangements for the supply of drinking water and food packets during
Ganesh Nimajjanam ( idol immersion) celebrations.

So, what could have led to the communal riots in Hyderabad in the last week of
March? The ruling Congress government seems to have an answer, but it has not
come out in the open about it for fear of trouble within the party.

Hyderabad police commissioner A K Khan made it clear on day one itself that the
riots were not spontaneous and had been orchestrated by some groups with vested
interests.

According to one theory, the riots were the result of a war of supremacy between
the Majlis- e- Ittehadul Muslimeen ( MIM) and the Bharatiya Janata Party. While
the MIM is trying to dominate politics in the old city, the BJP is desperately
trying to regain its hold in the Hindu- dominated areas, taking advantage of the
rekindled Telangana movement.

DURING the Miladul- Nadi celebrations, the MIM displayed its power by putting up
party flags all over the old city, while the BJP and its Sangh Parivar
affiliates used Sriram Navami and Hanuman Jayanti to show their strength. The
removal of flags by rival groups led to communal clashes, which spread to
different parts of the city, including areas in Secunderabad.

During investigations, the police authorities found that most of those who took
part in the riots in different parts of the city were outsiders. A section of
Congress leaders from Telangana alleged that the riots were the handiwork of
their colleagues from Andhra and Rayalaseema regions, aimed

at sabotaging the process of Telangana formation in collusion with the MIM.
Another section suspected that the riots were engineered by some political
groups to destabilise the Rosaiah government, indirectly pointing the accusing
finger at Kadapa MP Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, who desperately wants to occupy the
hot seat. Congress MP from Nizamabad Madhu Yashki Goud went on record to say it
was a conspiracy similar to the one hatched against the Channa Reddy government
in 1990 to remove him from power by inciting communal riots. He was obviously
referring to the allegations that former chief minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy
had a hand in inciting the communal riots at that time.

Similar views were expressed by several Congress leaders including MLA P Shankar
Rao and Rajya Sabha member V Hanumantha Rao. There were also some reports that
the communal riots could be the handiwork of Karnataka's BJP minister Gali
Janardhan Reddy in connivance with the party forces in Andhra Pradesh. They were
perhaps trying to pull down Chief Minister Rosaiah, who has been creating
hurdles before the Reddy brothers' mining activity in Anantapur district
bordering Bellary.

The truth will never come out, as the Rosaiah government has remained tight-
lipped over all these reports. Now that the situation is back to normal, the
police, too, are unlikely to come up with any startling revelations.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2010 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             898 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday

Police miscues fuelled Stanley Cup riot, report says

BYLINE: IAN BAILEY

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; VANCOUVER; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 875 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The Vancouver police underestimated both the number of drunken fans who would
show up for Game 7 of the Stanley Cup playoff, and how early they would arrive -
a pair of miscalculations that helped to fuel one of the worst riots in Canada's
history.

That is the picture painted by a long-awaited independent review into the June
15 riots that swept Vancouver, an orgy of looting, arson and mayhem that
blackened the city's international reputation.

"The police came on time. The problem was that a great many people arrived
early, and great numbers were drunk when they arrived or drank openly after they
got there," concluded the report's authors, former Nova Scotia deputy
attorney-general Doug Keefe and former VANOC head John Furlong.

But the report says no "plausible number" of police officers could have
prevented the rampage once 155,000 people flooded downtown Vancouver that
evening as the Boston Bruins defeated the Vancouver Canucks in Game 7 of the
Stanley Cup final.

And by the time the VPD was fully deployed, a drunken crowd had swelled in the
downtown, and any effort at that point to keep liquor out of the fan zones was
futile.

While their report eschews any formal blame, it details miscues and missed
opportunities to contain the riot.

The report found:

* The Vancouver police wanted to control access to the downtown celebrations
tightly through issuing tickets and inspecting all revellers for alcohol - but
city officials said no, citing time and budget constraints.

* A critical half-hour delay in deploying riot police as officers struggled into
tactical gear allowed the riot to gain momentum.

* The province said a day ahead of time that downtown liquor stores would close
early, spurring early and heavy alcohol consumption by those looking to beat the
cut-off.

* The greatest failure was not any action, but the failure to anticipate such a
large crowd, with thousands of drunken young men and hundreds intent on
violence.

The report, commissioned by the provincial government, says that mass street
celebrations should continue to take place in Vancouver so as to not surrender
the streets to "thugs and villains." Mr. Keefe and Mr. Furlong issued 53
far-reaching recommendations aimed at preventing a repeat of the June 15
rampage. Among the most important: there should be far greater control of
alcohol on public transit, perhaps a ban; and authorities should be ready to
shut down public transit to any future trouble spots. Improved co-operation
among Vancouver's regional police forces, and a special court to deal with riot
-related offences are other key legal recommendations.

Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu hinted that budgetary concerns were not
irrelevant in response to a question on why his policing plan did not call for
officers to be deployed in the early afternoon of June 15. "If I had infinite
amounts of money, I would deploy officers five hours before I think they're
needed, just to be on the safe side. But we don't do that. We have to be
responsible with public money," he told reporters.

Chief Chu defended the performance of the VPD, citing the report's statement
that no number of police could have prevented the riot. He said he will push for
greater regional police co-operation for major events, and will speak to transit
officials about cutting the flow of people into downtown for future events. And
he stood by his force's investigation into the riot. More than two months after
the disturbance, no formal charges have been laid - but Chief Chu asked for
patience, vowing that hundreds will be charged.

While largely exonerating Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson of any culpability in
the lead-up to the riot, the report recommends that British Columbia end the
practice of municipal mayors doubling as the head of their police boards.

Mr. Keefe said the withering police presence in the opening minutes of the riot
- as officers scrambled for a half-hour to change into tactical gear - added to
the momentum of the disturbance. "To use a sports analogy, they probably felt
the referee had put his whistle in his pocket."

Among the report's recommendations is a call for the consideration of beefed-up
powers for the Liquor Control and Licensing Branch to "dampen" the sale and
distribution of alcohol for regional events. They also suggest TransLink, which
funnelled 500 people into the core every 90 seconds by train alone before the
riot, to take the lead in developing better practices for intercepting alcohol
on its systems.

B.C. Premier Christy Clark homed in on the "drunken rioters" she blamed for all
the trouble. "They are the ones who put our sense of safety in our city at
risk," she said. "It was those drunken louts who caused this problem."

Ms. Clark said she was open to suggestions in the report that B.C.'s
Attorney-General establish a process or special court for riot-related criminal
action.

Police have not said how many officers were on duty on riot night, but the
report discloses that 446 police began on duty that day, and reached 928 at full
deployment. Mr. Keefe said that number was appropriate, given the smaller crowds
that Vancouver police (mistakenly) assumed they would face.

With reports from Vivian Luk, Sunny Dhillon and Robert Matas

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             899 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday
                                 FOURTH EDITION

From riots to civil rights On July 2, 1917, racial conflict rocked East St.
Louis. A new book marks the journey

BYLINE: By Jane Henderson Post-Dispatch Book Editor

SECTION: A&E; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 2185 words


In 1917, a newspaper reporter looked out his window and saw thousands of
African-Americans streaming across the Free Bridge to St. Louis. They were
fleeing a burning city where blacks and whites fought in a vicious race riot.

The newsman, Carlos Hurd, was well-known at that time because he was the first
reporter to interview survivors of the Titanic.

Hurd hurried to the Free Bridge (now called MacArthur Bridge), joining reporters
from several papers who were at the scene.

He told St. Louisans in the next day's Post-Dispatch that white mobs had
massacred black citizens of East St. Louis by shooting, beating, lynching and
even throwing them into the Mississippi: "It was like nothing so much as the
holiday crowd, with thumbs turned down, in the Roman Coliseum, except that here
the shouters were their own gladiators, and their own wild beasts."

Much of the killing was done calmly and methodically. A Globe-Democrat reporter
later told investigators that rioters were asking questions such as, "Have you
got your nigger yet?"

News of the riot was on the front page of papers across the country, including
The New York Times. A few weeks later, photographers recorded the first major
civil rights parade, dubbed the Silent Parade, as activists quietly walked down
Fifth Avenue in New York.

A new book brings to life the long-forgotten East St. Louis riot of 1917,
retelling the dramatic story of what was the deadliest race riot in American
history until Los Angeles erupted in 1992 after four LA police officers were
acquitted of beating Rodney King.

"Never Been a Time," by Harper Barnes, not only describes the roughly 24 hours
of mayhem that resulted in an official death count of 39 blacks and nine whites,
it puts the riot in the context of the country's history of racial violence.

Many significant race riots struck fear in Americans in the 20th century. But
the East St. Louis riot of July 2, 1917, helped spark the civil rights movement,
Barnes says.

As W.E.B. Du Bois wrote while World War I raged overseas: "Germany has nothing
on East St. Louis when it comes to 'frightfulness.'"

Barnes retired from the Post-Dispatch after many years as a critic, reporter and
editor. He continues to write book reviews for this paper. Barnes talked last
week about his new book, which was published Tuesday. The conversation has been
edited for length and clarity.

EAST ST. LOUIS ERUPTS

Q: How did the riot get started?

A: Blacks had been leaving the South and moving north. Thousands of blacks moved
to East St. Louis in 1915, 1916, lured by promises of jobs. There were more
blacks than there were jobs. So you had blacks who were homeless, blacks begging
for work.

Q: And you write that they were used as strikebreakers by local industries that
wanted to keep wages low?

A: They were used as strikebreakers, in part to antagonize whites and in part
because the blacks were desperate for work and would work cheap. In the first
half of 1917, there were constant attacks on blacks in the streets as blacks
moved into white neighborhoods and took jobs that had been held by whites.

Then, on July 1, a black Model T Ford drove through a black neighborhood, and
whites in the car shot at the houses along the way. Nightriders in another black
car later did the same.

Q: So police were sent to investigate the gunfire and increasing tension between
racial groups. Also, rumors were flying among both blacks and whites that their
"enemies" were gathering guns to fight.

A: Yes. The third time a Model T with white men in it came through the
neighborhood, the blacks were armed and ready to fight back. And they shot and
killed two men in the car. They were plainclothes policemen.

Q: Had police been in the previous cars?

A: I don't think so, although we don't know who was in them. It just was dark,
and all the cars looked alike. Almost all the cars in those days were black
Model T's. Eventually, 13 black men were convicted of the shooting.

Q: How could 13 people fire one or two guns?

A: They had lots of guns. They'd been stockpiling guns, afraid of a white
uprising. The next morning, whites gathered downtown by the hundreds and then by
the thousands and began attacking blacks on the streets.

They pulled them off the streetcars and beat them. Pretty soon they began
shooting, and the riot escalated. What started as rather cold-blooded killing
became even more intense - riots have a way of building momentum. And by the
afternoon, blacks were being hanged from lampposts in the middle of town.

Q: How many?

A: There were at least two hanged. One of them was also scalped. The official
death count for the lynchings and killings of blacks was probably too low. It
may have been in the hundreds.

Q: Were any white people convicted of crimes?

A: Nine or 10.

Q: How many police patrolled East St. Louis?

A: They had 70 policemen, and I think there were at least several thousand
people rioting. Also, several hundred National Guardsmen were brought in. Some
in the National Guard were sympathetic with the riots. And there are, in my
book, some instances where it is thought that guardsmen actually shot blacks
running away from white mobs.

Q: What photographs were taken?

A: There were few photographs because police and guardsmen broke cameras.

A HISTORY OF STRUGGLE

Q: Is this one of the reasons why East St. Louis is always struggling?

A: Well, East St. Louis has struggled forever because it was set up as a
satellite city. It's a satellite of St. Louis and, basically, it's never had
much of a tax base.

It started out as a railroad town, and it was owned by the railroad, and then
when other industries started moving in, the industrialists put the other
industries outside the city limits. They put the steel mills in Granite City.
The aluminum mills were in unincorporated St. Clair County. The slaughterhouses
were in National City. So East St. Louis never got that tax money.

Here's an illustration: In East St. Louis, about 43 percent of income came from
saloon licenses. The city was filled with saloons and houses of prostitution.
... In St. Louis, saloon taxes made up about 4.5 percent of city income.

So you ended up with a city full of guys who hung out in saloons who were, when
the riots came along, part of the riot.

Q: When you drink, you're more likely to become violent.

A: There's some indication that the riot got more ferocious in the afternoon
after the (white) mayor had closed the saloons and all these people spilled out
into the streets.

AMERICA REACTS IN HORROR

Q: What were some of the things that happened afterward?

A: Well, about 7,000 blacks fled to St. Louis. They were taken in and given
medical treatment, and shelter was found for them. It was many years before
blacks in great numbers returned to East St. Louis.

Also, W.E.B. Du Bois and Ida B. Wells (two prominent black writers and
activists), came to East St. Louis to report on it.

The riot was the main inspiration for the first major civil rights
demonstration, known as the Silent Parade. Between 8,000 and 10,000 African
Americans marched down Fifth Avenue in New York on July 28, silent except for
the muffled beat of drums, carrying signs calling for a federal investigation of
the East St. Louis riot and the passage of anti-lynching legislation.

Three months after the riot, a congressional committee arrived and interviewed
hundreds of survivors. The transcript of those interviews is the core of my
book.

REPERCUSSIONS FOR 21st CENTURY

Q: This riot happened 91 years ago this week. Why do we need to know about it
now?

A: Well, I think we've begun - maybe for the first time in recent years - to
talk frankly about our racial history.

As Barack Obama said in his Philadelphia speech: Generation after generation of
black people were raised in terrible conditions. (Obama is a U.S. senator and
presumptive Democratic presidential nominee.)

Also, most white people in St. Louis have never heard of the riot.

We have to understand that black people, including many living today, grew up in
an atmosphere in which blacks were killed, blacks were murdered.

There was a book that I recently reviewed for the Post-Dispatch called "Slavery
by Another Name." It pointed out that in much of the nation, slavery didn't
really end until the second World War.

In the South, there was convict labor. Blacks were arrested just because the
steel company needed workers, and so forth. So I just think that we have to
understand that the terrible things, the oppression, lasted well into the 20th
century. It didn't end with slavery.

Q: A lot of people will point out that people oppressed white people, too. Poor
white people worked terrible jobs and were afraid for their jobs, too.

A: And the book deals very much with that. Poverty pits whites against blacks.
The reason for race riots was often fear. There was fear for jobs, fear for
homes, fear for safety.

Obama talks about the fact that for many black people and for many white people
as well, racial fear is something we try to brush under the carpet.

Q: In 1917, racial discrimination was the standard, and we're a country built on
the backs of slaves and cheap labor. For us to really deal with that, we have to
somehow acknowledge it and make some kind of amends by admitting it happened - a
lot of people aren't ready to do that, is that right?

A: I think that's right, but I think we've got to. I think we've got to
understand this part of our history, we really do.

---

'Never Been a Time: The 1917 Race Riot That Sparked the Civil Rights Movement'

By Harper Barnes Published by Walker, 293 pages, $25.99

---

East St. Louis, circa 1917

Estimated population

Black: 12,000 White: 63,000

Killed in July 2 riot

Black: 39 (official tally); 100-200 (unofficial estimate) White: 9 (official
tally; no unofficial figure)

---

Eyewitness account

by Beatrice Deshong, 26

"I saw the mob robbing the homes of Negroes and then set fire to them. The
soldier stood with folded arms and looked on as the houses burned. I saw a Negro
man killed instantly by a member of the mob, men, small boys, and women and
little girls all were trying to do something to injure the Negroes. ... The
police and the soldiers were assisting the mob to kill Negroes and to destroy
their homes. I saw the mob hang a colored man to a telegraph pole and riddle him
with bullets. I saw the mob chasing a colored man who had a baby in his arms.
The mob was shooting at him all of the time as long as I saw him. I ran for my
life. I was nearly exhausted when a white man in the block opened the door of
his warehouse and told me to go in there and hide."

From reporting by W.E.B. Du Bois and his team and quoted in "Never Been a Time"

---

Lasting effects for famous East St. Louisans

Josephine Baker

At 11, Freda Josephine McDonald witnessed the rioting, remembering it as an
"apocalypse." She later wrote: "The entire black community appeared to be
fleeing." The girl, who would change her name and gain fame as a singer and
dancer in Paris, fled the city herself at age 13.

Miles Davis

The future jazz great grew up in the '30s near 15th Street and Bond Avenue. It
was an integrated, relatively peaceful area. But Davis later said he knew that
most East St. Louis whites were "racist to the bone."

Eugene Redmond

Redmond, a retired professor and the city's poet laureate, was born after the
riot. But, he says, black residents have never forgotten it 91 years later:
"There has never been a time when the riot was not alive in the oral tradition."

By Jane Henderson

---

20th century race riots

Race riots in America occurred during the 19th century, but they grew in size
and violence as the country's population increased. Here are a few of the most
significant in the 20th century. Official death tolls are believed to be often
vastly underestimated.

SPRINGFIELD, ILL.

August 1908; seven dead

A white woman falsely charged a black man with rape. Thousands of whites stormed
black neighborhoods, lynching two and destroying parts of downtown. Led to the
founding of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

CHICAGO

July 1919; 38 dead

A white man threw a rock at a black boy swimming in Lake Michigan, and the boy
drowned. Fighting broke out, and thousands of whites stormed black neighborhoods
on the city's South Side. The summer of 1919 was called Red Summer because mobs
attacked blacks in about two dozen U.S. cities and towns.

TULSA, OKLA.

May 1921; 36 dead

After a white woman claimed that a black man assaulted her in a lurching
elevator, whites set fires over 35 city blocks. Historians believe that in
Tulsa, as in East St. Louis, 100 or more blacks were killed and buried in
unmarked graves, thrown into the Arkansas River or burned beyond recognition.

LOS ANGELES

April 1992; 55 dead

The highest official death toll of the 20th century came from riots that
followed the acquittal of four policemen videotaped beating African-American
motorist Rodney King.

From "Never Been a Time" by Harper Barnes

---

Harper Barnes

When: 7 p.m. Wednesday

Where: Left Bank Books, 399 North Euclid Avenue

Cost: Free

For more info: 314-367-6731

When: 7 p.m. July 9

Where: St. Louis County Library headquarters, 1640 South Lindbergh Boulevard

Cost: Free

For more info: 314-994-3300

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - (East St. Lous riot) Illustration by John Shew Post-Dispatch  PHOTO -
'Never Been a Time: The 1917 Race Riot That Sparked the Civil Rights Movement'
PHOTO - Mobs of whites pulled black passengers from downtown streetcars and beat
them during the 1917 riot in East St. Louis. W.E.B. Du Bois Papers, courtesy
University of Massachusetts at Amherst.  PHOTO - Josephine Baker  PHOTO - Miles
Davis  PHOTO - Eugene Redmond  PHOTO - Harper Barnes

DOCUMENT-TYPE: REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             900 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 3 1986, Thursday

Yard's riot report calls for CS gas or plastic bullets and new tactics

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62499.

LENGTH: 783 words


Rioters in Tottenham and Brixton gave terrorized Londoners last autumn a
'horrifying glimpse' of what happens when public order breaks down, Sir Kenneth
Newman, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, said yesterday in the foreword to
a wide-ranging Scotland Yard review of riot policing.

Two people were killed, and 381 people, including 348 police officers, injured
during the riots last September and October.


The review recommends more than 70 improvements to police riot equipment,
tactics and policy in the light of weaknesses and errors.

These include equipment for police to advance on rioters rather than stand and
receive missiles; armoured Land Rovers and an undertaking that plastic bullets
or CS gas will be used.

Sir Kenneth, who accepts all the recommendations, pledged future disorder would
be dealt with quickly and effectively.

He could not forecast when such violence might come again. He pointed to four
London areas - Kilburn, Hackney, Lambeth and Haringey - where tension remains
high, but said there were no immediate signs of trouble in the capital.

The review rules out a special 'third force' or London equivalent of the French
CRS riot police.

In the review, which examines events since the 1981 Brixton riots, Sir Kenneth
comments that some community leaders had helped to avert trouble. 'No-go areas'
were not acceptable but 'effective law enforcement did not necessarily require
immediate and forceful action; it may be better to wait for an opportunity to
act in more favourable circumstances. '

Looking at the Brixton riot, the review found 'the nature and level of violence
was severe at times and was spread over a wider area than had been the case in
1981. Rioters were armed with a wide range of weapons which, in addition to
petrol bombs and the usual missiles, included axes, machetes and sledgehammers.
'

The rioting on the Broadwater Farm estate in Tottenham a month later came after
a long period of tension and the review listed more than 22 incidents from the
summer of 1982 where there was friction or attacks on public servants.

The review noted that the tension which existed was exploited by a 'hard core of
fifty to sixty criminals intent on ensuring their lucrative trade in drugs and
other criminal activity could continue unchecked'.

But at the same time the riot showed a number of weaknesses in the police
operation.

Because of the tension, a special command room for possible disorder was opened
the day before the riot. The room began operating with a reserve of police on
standby before the death of Mrs Jarrett which became the trigger for the
disorder.

The next day, a crowd gathered during a meeting between police and community
leaders. The crowd threatened the police with revenge that evening, but an
optimistic assessment of the situation was given to the control room.

Later that day two officers were attacked, one badly injured, but the level of
the violence was not known to senior officers until later.

After the riots, the police were asked why they did not use a contingency plan
and take over the walkways or vantage points of the estate so they could not be
ambushed.

The review said the plan was considered, but was not thought necessary: 'It must
be borne in mind there was a relative period of calm in the hours preceding the
riot which gave the impression that normality was returning to the area. '

In the aftermath, the review found there were misunderstandings among police
about how law enforcement tied in with sensitive policing.

Senior officers needed training in riot policing and questions were raised over
the mobilization of manpower under the new division of London into eight partly
independent police areas.

Contingency plans are to be revised and a new public order policing manual is to
be made available to all officers, not just those of senior rank.

Improvements are to be made in the way information is collated for disorders and
the line of command is to be made clearer with more senior officers taking
charge.

The Brixton riot of September 28 and 29 started after the shooting of Mrs Cherry
Groce and resulted in the death of a photographer and injuries to 93 police.

More than 900 crimes were reported and more than 200 people charged with
offences including murder, rape and robbery. There were some 395 claims for
damages totalling pounds 2.4 million.

The Tottenham riot on October 6 began after the death of Mrs Cynthia Jarrett the
day before. One policeman was mrudered and another 255 injured, including seven
who were shot. A total of 346 crimes were reported and 351 people arrested, of
whom 147 were charged.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited


                             901 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                      December 27, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

'Shaken to the core' but Narendra Modi does not offer apology for 2002 Gujarat
riots

BYLINE: Dailybhaskar.com

LENGTH: 955  words


Ahmedabad: Narendra Modi on Friday spoke of "pain" and "anguish" over the 2002
Gujarat riots, but did not proffer any apology over the killings. In a 1000-word
blog containing his most detailed comments on the riots, the BJP's prime
ministerial candidate said that he felt "absolute emptiness" on witnessing such
"inhumanity".

A day after a magistrate's court upheld a clean chit given to him by a Supreme
Court-appointed probe panel in the massacre of 68 people in Gulberg Housing
Society here during the riots, Modi said he did not see the judgement as a
personal victory or defeat. He began by stating that with the judiciary having
spoken, "I felt it important to share my inner thoughts and feelings with the
nation at large."

Modi then referred to the devastating Gujarat earthquake of 2001 causing
widespread loss of life and property before he moved on to the riots the
following year. He stated wrongly that the riots had happened "within a mere
five months" of the earthquake. The earthquake happened on January 26, 2001 and
the riots took place in March 2002. After referring to the two tragic events,
Modi said, "I was shaken to the core. 'Grief, 'sadness, 'misery', 'pain'
'anguish', 'agony'- mere words could not capture the absolute emptiness one felt
on witnessing such inhumanity."

Modi said on the one side was the pain of the victims of the earthquake and on
the other the pain of the victims of the riots. "In decisively confronting this
great turmoil, I had to single-mindedly focus all the strength given to me by
the almighty on the task of peace, justice and rehabilitation; burying the pain
and agony I was personally wracked with," he said in an apparent effort to reach
out to the Muslims ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. "This is the first time I
am sharing the harrowing ordeal I had gone through in those words at a personal
level," he said in the blog.

Modi had over the last decade consistently refused to express regrets or
apologize for the riots that had killed over 1,000 people, most of them Muslims.
"The Gujarat government had responded to the violence more swiftly and
decisively than ever done before in any previous riots in the country.
"Yesterday's judgement culminated a process of unprecedented scrutiny closely
monitored by the highest court of land, the Honourable Supreme Court of India.
Gujarat's 12 years of trial by the fire have finally drawn to an end. I feel
liberated and at peace," He said.

Thanking the people who stood by him in these "trying times" through the "facade
of lies and deceit", the chief minister said "with this cloud of misinformation
firmly dispelled, I will now also hope that the many others out there trying to
understand and connect the real Narendra Modi would feel more empowered to do
so."

Emerging from "this journey of pain and agony", Modi said he prayed to God in
all humility that no bitterness seeped into his heart. "I sincerely do not see
this judgement as a personal victory or defeat, and urge all - My friends and
especially my opponents - to not to do so as well," he said. Modi, who has the
image of a hardline Hindutva proponent and describes himself as a Hindu
nationalist, said those who derive satisfaction by perpetuating pain in others
will probably not stop their tirade against him. "I do not expect them to. But,
I pray in all my humility, that they at least now stop irresponsibly maligning
the 6 crore people of Gujarat," he said.

He said he fasted 37 days for Sadhbhavana (harmony), choosing to translate the
positive judgement into constructive action, reinforcing unity and sadbhavana in
society at large." "I am deeply convinced that the future of any society, state
or country lies in harmony. This is the only foundation on which progress and
prosperity can be built. Therefore, I urge one and all to join hands in working
towards the same, ensuring smiles on each and every face," he said. "Once
again," Modi said, "satyameva jayate" (truth alone triumphs).

Recalling the events of those days in the aftermath of the Godhra train burning,
Modi said he fervently urged for peace and restraint to ensure lives of
innocents were not put at risk. "I had repeatedly reiterated the same principles
in my daily interactions with the media in those fateful days of February-March
2002 as well, publicly underlining the political will as well as moral
responsibility of the government to ensure peace, deliver justice and punish all
guilty of violence.

"You will also find these deep emotions in my recent words at my Sadbhavana
fasts, where I had emphasized how such deplorable incidents did not behove a
civilized society and had pained me deeply," he said. In fact, Modi said, his
emphasis has always been on developing and emphasizing a spirit of unity with
the now widely-used concept of "My 5 crore Gujarati brothers and sisters' having
crystallized right at the beginning of his tenure as chief minister itself from
this very space.

"However, as if all the suffering was not enough, I was also accused of the
death and misery of my own loved ones, my Gujarati brothers and sisters. Can you
imagine the inner turmoil and shock of being blamed for the very events that
have shattered you," he said. For so many years, they incessantly kept up their
attack, leaving no stone unturned. What pained even more was that in their
overzealousness to hit at him for their narrow personal and political ends, they
ended up maligning the entire state and the country.

"They heartlessly kept reopening the wounds that we were sincerely trying to
heal. It ironically also delayed the very justice that these people claimed to
be fighting for. May be they did not realise how much suffering they were adding
to an already pained people," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2013 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             902 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

          The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia) (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 13, 2004 Friday

Handling of riot left officers 'disgusted'

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: STAVRO SOFIOS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 421 words


POLICE left the Redfern riot "disgusted" and "embarrassed" with how their bosses
had handled Sydney's worst civil disturbance in decades.

Further details emerged yesterday into how senior police handled the February 15
riot and how it "was not a great night for the NSW Police service".

But senior police refused to release the internal report, which took strike
force Coburn six months to compile and which was leaked to The Daily Telegraph
by the State Opposition.

"The only reason we moved into Eveleigh St was because the offenders went to
bed, not [because of] any tactical movement ," one officer told Coburn
investigators.

"Sirs, 50 police were injured as they were standing in a line being hit by
objects. If you didn't want us to move and adopt a softer approach that's fine,
but you should not have left us standing in the line."

The Daily Telegraph yesterday revealed police "under-appreciated the
seriousness" of the riot and mismanaged their response.

Coburn investigators found frontline police didn't have access to riot gear, the
equipment available was old and broken and not for riot use and it took four
hours for riot police to arrive because of communications blunders.

If the police helicopter was called in hours earlier it could have identified
the rioters gathering in Eveleigh St while police had "an inability to rapidly
deploy a sizeable contingent of [riot-trained] police to unplanned acts of
violence with the appropriate equipment".

One officer told Coburn: "On several occasions rioters were allowed to walk past
police lines and attend local shops.

"One of these persons seemed to be one of the main agitators."

Another officer said: "We finished the shift with a feeling of disgust and
embarrassment."

Deputy Commissioner Dave Madden yesterday defended the decision not to release
the report until after a coronial inquest into the death of TJ Hickey, which
sparked the riot after the teenager was found impaled on a fence in Phillip St,
Redfern.

But the coroner does not care when the report is released.

Mr Madden said senior officers who bungled the riot response would not be
punished even though Premier Bob Carr refused to rule out disciplinary action.

"Something would be wrong if we didn't learn from such a circumstance," Mr Carr
said.

"It should not have taken a sorry event like the Redfern riots to reveal the
outrageous lack of organisational support for frontline police," Opposition
Leader John Brogden said.

The Debate: Page 26

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             903 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                          The York Dispatch (York, PA)

                           December 5, 2001 Wednesday

Many stories left untold;
Some York residents warn of reopening wounds

BYLINE: By DEBBIE NOEL Dispatch/Sunday News

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORT

LENGTH: 524 words


A good way to empty a room is to bring up a discussion about York City's 1969
riots.

Many York residents refused to talk about the week when the city streets became
a battleground.

Months ago, as the community approached the 30-year anniversary of the riots,
The York Dispatch ran an ad requesting people to share their memories of that
week in 1969. The newspaper received close to 25 phone calls from people willing
to tell their stories; all were whites who had lived or worked in the area at
that time.

The newspaper also contacted members of the community who lived through the
riots. A handful of those who had initially agreed to talk didn't show up for
the interviews; some gave no explanation, others said they had changed their
minds about talking about the past.

The paper also received calls and letters from blacks and whites who did not
want the story about the riots to run. They didn't want their names in the paper
and they didn't want their opinions expressed in print. Some said they felt it
was irresponsible journalism to discuss something so violent that happened so
long ago.

Some fear if they talked about the violence it would create the atmosphere for
another riot in the minds of young people. One caller said she feared the anger
on the streets of York today was so similar to that in 1969 that an article
would trigger a negative response.

Elmer Woodyard, a black ex-York City police officer, said, "Old wounds should be
left to heal or at least not brought to the surface to hurt and remind us that
we haven't learned that much from past mistakes and injustices." Woodyard, who
now lives in Colorado, was a patrolman in 1969. He quit the department on the
sixth day of the riots, citing department racism and bigotry.

But the riots and their context in history can't be ignored, said Peter Levy, an
associate professor of history and political science at York College.

"We're willing to go to Gettysburg and reenact killing each other, but we don't
want to look at the riots -- but to do so is positive," he said. "When you have
a discussion on substandard housing, that may open a wound, but it should also
raise the question on how to continue to improve substandard housing."

City Council President Wm. Lee Smallwood agreed that although some people are
hesitant to discuss the riots, frank dialogue may be necessary.

Smallwood speculated that those who don't want to talk about the riots may be
harboring feelings of guilt at not having done more to prevent them. "Maybe they
even helped create it with their attitudes."

But Smallwood, like many who did talk, expressed the need to get to the truth of
the riots -- to understand what had happened and why.

"If you don't know where you've come from, you can't know where you're going.
It's extremely important to make people aware of the riots. I do it almost
subconsciously," he said.

"It's not to look back and point fingers," Levy said. "But avoiding the
underside of history doesn't mean you avoid problems in the future. We need to
reopen and maintain a dialogue about race in America."

Carolyn Jenko Kimmel contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 York Newspapers, Inc.


                             904 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Will Boris Johnson's water cannon blast Theresa May out of the water?

BYLINE: Richard Seymourtheguardian.com

LENGTH: 935 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Seymour: The London mayor is trying to win back the authoritarian Tory
right from Theresa May. Can a few cannons do the trick?

FULL TEXT

It's that time when Tory leadership contenders start making audacious moves to
secure their position in the party. Michael Gove has his Trojan horse
shenanigans, Theresa May has her battle with Gove, and Boris Johnson has water
cannon.

There is much riding on these wars. Johnson, an incomparable media operator,
would appear to be the natural candidate to take control of the Conservative
party. He is an instinctive Thatcherite who nonetheless knows how to communicate
well beyond the right, and who rebuts hostile questioning by making interviewers
melt into giggles. He has demonstrated in London that he can expand the Tory
base and preserve it.

Yet recent polls of Tory members find him lagging well behind May. The expedited
purchase of water cannon for the Metropolitan police, before the home secretary
has ruled on whether they can be used, is clearly Johnson's answer.

The use of water cannon by British police was first broached during the 2011
riots, a magical time when practically any authoritarian solution was alighted
on with relish by the great majority of the British public. Even while the
courts threw out the sentencing rule book, evidently under instruction to jail
anyone remotely connected with the riots, Twitter was ablaze with exhortations
to send them back, lock them up, cut their benefits, shoot them with live
bullets, send them to Afghanistan, and so on. In the light of this
spittle-lathered lunacy, any opportunist who wanted to bring in water cannon
could have managed to sound quite moderate.

As long as the narrative about the riots is that they were caused by "greed and
gangs", the "commonsense" response was more, and better, repression. Riots don't
work this way. The most detailed study of the riots predictably confirmed that
these riots were to a large extent protests against police injustice. The line
between crime and political protest is, as student demonstrators know well
enough, artificial.

Even if riots did work this way, the police evidently would not see water cannon
as a solution. As Sir Hugh Orde pointed out in 2011, after Cameron first vaunted
the idea, these weapons are designed for use against static crowds rather than
mobile groups. "I don't see it as necessary, and nor do the 43 chiefs I spoke to
this morning," Orde remarked. Moreover, Johnson's rationale for expediting the
procurement, that London could face disorder over the summer, is exceptionally
feeble even within its own logic. The Association of Chief Police Officers has
stated that its intelligence does not lead it to expect serious disturbance in
the near future. The London Assembly's police and crime commission finds no
convincing case has been made for the purchase.

So why does Orde want water cannon now? Why has the Association of Chief Police
Officers (Acpo) begun a national campaign to get water cannon approved? And why
has the Met chief, Bernard Hogan-Howe, asked Johnson to have operational water
cannon ready for summer 2014?

Acpo's answer is that even if there is unlikely to be serious disturbance,
"ongoing and potential future austerity measures are likely to lead to continued
protest" that can "turn to serious violent disorder". It says that the weapon
could have been used in contexts such as the student protests or those outside
the Israeli embassy in 2009.

The water cannon, though Boris Johnson blushes to admit it, is for use against
protesters. It is also, as Stuart Hall and his colleagues put it some decades
ago, for "policing the crisis".

Some opponents of water cannon have stressed the risk of serious injuries. This
is real enough, but it is epiphenomenal. The main point is to give police a
weapon that makes defiance almost impossible, treating protest as something to
be crushed and thus tilting the balance of power further away from citizens and
toward the state.

The home secretary, who has shown streaks of authoritarian malice in other
cases, has been cautious of this proposal, citing the need to preserve the
consensual nature of British policing. Indeed, part of her reform agenda and the
conflict with the police leadership resulting from it, is precisely about
reorganising the consensual basis for policing with elected commissioners.

However, this is where Johnson has been canny. He has carefully prepared the
ground for his move, with what looks like extensive push-polling in the guise of
consultation to generate support for the idea. He has solicited support across
ethnic groups, stressing this fact. And both he and Hogan-Howe, despite claiming
that the introduction of the weapon is an urgent matter for the police and
public safety, repeatedly declare that it would be used exceptionally rarely, if
ever.

In this way, Johnson has softened potential criticism so that he can offer a
juicy bone to the authoritarian right. He has put May on the spot. If she
ratifies the use of water cannon, she corroborates Johnson's precipitous action.
If she does not, she cedes ground to her right that Johnson will seek to occupy;
she appears both soft and further antagonises the police leadership, which
should ordinarily be the natural ally of a Conservative government.

As ever with Johnson, his bid comes with a populist feint. He has promised the
rightwing LBC journalist Nick Ferrari that he will allow himself to be blasted
with a water cannon to prove that it's no big deal. If May wants to keep her
lead, she might advise the cannon operators to turn the pressure up very high
indeed.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                             905 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Huntington Beach Independent (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          November 27, 2013 Wednesday

Police arrest six more in riot case

BYLINE: Anthony Clark Carpio, Huntington Beach Independent, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 365 words


Nov. 27--Huntington Beach police have arrested six additional suspects related
to the disturbance at the end of the U.S. Open of Surfing in July.

According to a statement from police, the arrests, made since August, make for
20 people taken into custody in connection with the incident on July 28, when
attendees of the surfing competition took to the streets of downtown Huntington
Beach, causing several thousands of dollars in damages.

Authorities recently arrested Michael Andrew Wilson Millard, 26, of Victorville,
on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon, arson, vandalism, refusing to
disperse and inciting a riot. He was arrested Nov. 14 at his home.

Another suspect, 24-year-old Vincent Trujillo, of Huntington Beach, surrendered
himself to the Orange County Superior Court West Justice Center on Oct. 10 on
charges of assault on a peace officer, inciting a riot and participating in a
riot.

Police also arrested Shayne Cody Baldwin, 25, of Stanton, on suspicion of
failing to disperse. He pleaded not guilty on Sept. 9 at the West Justice
Center.

Other suspects arrested were three juveniles, one from Long Beach and two from
Huntington Beach.

Authorities arrested a Huntington Beach juvenile Aug. 6 on suspicion of assault
on a peace officer, vandalism for damaging a taxi cab and newspaper stands,
refusing to disperse and participating in a riot, according to the statement.

Another teen from Surf City was arrested Aug. 13 on suspicion of vandalizing
newspaper stands.

Police issued a warrant on Aug. 6 for the Long Beach suspect for suspicion of
stolen property, vandalism, inciting a riot and participating in a riot.
Huntington Beach police detectives arrested the teen Oct. 11.

The Huntington Beach police are continuing to identify and arrest those involved
with the disturbance in July. Those with additional information on other
suspects can call Sgt. Jerry Abrahams at (714) 536-5949. Anonymous tips can be
submitted to http://www.occrimestoppers.org.

--Anthony Clark Carpio

___ (c)2013 the Huntington Beach Independent (Huntington Beach, Calif.) Visit
the Huntington Beach Independent (Huntington Beach, Calif.) at
www.hbindependent.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131127-1HB-Police-arrest-six-more-in-riot-case-1127-20131127

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1HB


                  Copyright 2013 Huntington Beach Independent


                             906 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Summer riots could repeat during the Olympics, panel concludes

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 376 words


England could be hit by more riots next summer - possibly during the London
Olympics - without urgent action to tackle their causes and to improve policing
in potential flashpoints, a government-commissioned report warned yesterday.

It said some factors behind the looting, such as poverty, joblessness and
grievances about the police, remained potent problems in parts of major cities.

The investigation by the independent Riots, Communities and Victims Panel also
protested that victims of the riot violence were struggling to receive
compensation.

Darra Singh, the panel's chairman, said: "While deprivation is not an excuse for
criminal behaviour, we must seek to tackle the underlying causes of the riots or
they will happen again."

Maeve Sherlock, a panel member, said interviews in areas hit by trouble
uncovered widespread anger over inequalities and injustices, with people
pointing to bankers' bonuses and the MPs' expenses scandal. They felt that "too
many people and organisations were taking more out of the country than they were
putting in and this was having a corrosive impact on our society", she said.

The panel was set up by Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, after the August
disturbances which spread from London to other major cities such as Birmingham,
Manchester and Liverpool.

It said there was no single motivation behind the trouble, with looters ranging
from criminal gangs to late-night shoppers and opportunists. But it warned: "Few
people ruled out the prospect of riots in the future."

The panel concluded that had the police been "more robust" in dealing with the
riots in London, the violence might not have spread to other parts of the
country.

The panel is due to present its final conclusions in March, but in an interim
report yesterday it called on police to review emergency plans so they could
respond more effectively to fresh outbreaks of looting. It said planning in
London should reflect "the risk of a repeat of the August riots during the
Olympic Games" and ensure the emergency services can cope.

The panel said some rioters were returning from jail to their communities and
urged the probation service and youth workers to work with them to prevent
reoffending. It also recommended a fund to support riot-hit areas.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             907 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday

NCP leader arrested for Miraj riots

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 362  words

DATELINE: Pune


The Maharashtra Police on Sunday arrested Mainuddin Shamsuddin Bagwan of the
Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for allegedly masterminding the communal riots
in Miraj in September 2009.

Bagwan was the Mayor of Miraj, Sangli and Kupwad Municipal Corporation when the
riots took place. His arrest came as a huge embarrassment for NCP, as he is
known to be a close aide of party's senior leader Jayant Patil, who was the home
minister of state when the riots took place.

The riots had started after a controversy over the erection of an arc depicting
Shivaji killing Adilshahi commander Afzal Khan during the Ganesh festival last
year. It later spread to various areas in Sangli and Kolhapur district, leading
to loss of several lives and property.

Krishna Prakash, former superintendent of police, Sangli, had on June 7 revealed
to the media that Bagwan was the mastermind of the Miraj riots. The NCP leader
had been untraceable since then.

Meanwhile, Bagwan, through his lawyer, had filed an application for anticipatory
bail at the district court on June 9. While the hearing on the application was
to take place on Monday, Bagwan surrendered before the police on Sunday morning
apparently owing to mounting pressure. He was thereafter arrested on charges of
"committing acts for creating communal tension and encouraging destruction of
peace" under Sections 143, 147, 149, 295, 153, 427, 120 of the Indian Penal
Code, and Section 135 of the Mumbai Police Act.

Police said Bagwan would be produced before the court on Monday.

Krishna Prakash had also said that suspects Imran Bopari and Shahid Nadaf,
arrested for their involvement in the riots, had told the judicial magistrate
that Bagwan's personal assistant Munna had instructed them to trigger riots.
"Bopari and Nadaf indulged in activities like throwing cow meat to hurt
religious sentiments. The two also said that Munna had helped them in escaping
from Miraj after the riots started," the former SP of Sangli had said.

Prakash had also held Shiv Sena chief of Miraj Vikas Suryawanshi responsible for
the riots. Earlier, several members of local Muslim as well as Hindu
organisations, including Sanatan Sanstha, were arrested.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             908 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Cops fearful for safety: Riot review; Internal interviews reveal officers also
felt undermanned, unequipped

BYLINE: Mike Raptis, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 539  words


Officers caught up in the Stanley Cup riot felt undermanned, unprepared,
unequipped and ultimately fearful for their safety, according to a post-riot
debriefing held by Vancouver police.

The voluminous and transparent VPD Riot Review released this week documents what
went wrong the night of June 15, with 393 of 928 VPD and RCMP officers - from
the command post to the front line - interviewed internally.

The officers suggested they responded well to the riot, given the circumstances
- which included command issues, problems in deployment, a lack of training and
equipment, communication breakdowns and a nightmare situation in the downtown
core.

Despite the assertion by VPD Chief Jim Chu and Insp. Steve Rai that the overall
situation was always manageable, 50 per cent of the VPD officers polled (129)
felt it got out of control.

Sgt. Howard Chow, a 23-year VPD veteran, was part of the crowd-control squad
during the riot of 1994 and said Tuesday he and the 10 officers under his
command June 15 felt "overwhelmed" by the 155,000 people who showed up - five
times what the VPD expected.

It was almost unanimous (97 per cent) among VPD respondents that there were not
enough resources at the site on Georgia Street, including insufficient (88 per
cent) and ineffective (92 per cent) private security guards hired by the city.

As the riot unfolded, 64 VPD officers (21 per cent of those polled) reported for
duty without even being called in by a superior.

Before the riot even started, 83 per cent of VPD officers felt there weren't
enough of them to handle the teeming crowds. That didn't change once the riot
erupted, with 82 per cent feeling undermanned as fists, metal projectiles and
bricks rained down.

In addition, over one-quarter (27 per cent) of VPD officers who were neither
tactical troops nor part of the Public Safety Unit reported not being trained
properly in crowd management.

Const. Laura Jacquet was on reguar patrol downtown the evening of June 15 when
she was deployed to Nelson and Granville streets, a scene she described as being
like a Hollywood movie.

"Suddenly this smoke gas cloud was coming towards us so it was, 'Masks on and
let's go,'" Jacquet told the media this week. "It was us against them. If you
didn't have your buddies on your back to protect you, you were vulnerable."

But unlike Jacquet, 45 per cent of officers polled felt ill-equipped. The
equipment shortage included respirators, helmets, radios and handcuffs - which
meant some officers could not be deployed for safety reasons. Some officers were
told not to bring respirators and helmets, while others with the equipment did
not know how to assemble their gas masks - resulting in leaks and malfunctions.

Rai said safety for his officers was his No. 1 concern, and he had "no desire to
put them in harm's way" if they were not equipped properly.

Even in their riot gear, and with their fellow officers at their side, nearly 40
per cent of officers and Mounties did not feel safe.

Of the 606 VPD deployed, 22 suffered injuries. One officer had to have 14
stitches and was concussed by a thrown brick.

"In those three hours, I've never felt like more of a target," said Jacquet. "It
was us against them."

mraptis@theprovince.com

twitter.com/mraptis

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PNG; VPD Const. Laura Jacquet recounts her riot experiences during a
news conference at police headquarters in Vancouver on Tuesday. - PNG; PNG
Files;  Canucks fans riot June 15 after their team lost to the Boston Bruins in
Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final in Vancouver. Arlen Redekop - PNG files;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             909 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

1984 anti-Sikh riot: Arvind Kejiwal to distribute enhanced compensation to
victims

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Oct. 29 -- Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will distribute enhanced
compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of 1984 anti-Sikh riot
victims, as announced by the Centre, in West Delhi's Tilak Vihar area on Sunday.

According to a senior official, there are around 2,600 families of the 1984
anti-Sikh riot victims. Government has estimated expenditure of around Rs 130
crore on compensation.

In October last year, a hike in compensation to Rs five lakh had been announced
by the central government, five months after the BJP had formed its government
at the Centre.

"The Chief Minister will distribute enhanced compensation cheques to kin of 1984
anti-Sikh riot victims on November 1.

All families of the riot victims will be given enhanced compensation cheques
within two or three days beginning from Sunday," the official said.

The Official also said that Centre will later refund the compensation amount to
the Delhi Government as it was their scheme.

In August this year, the Delhi Cabinet had decided to distribute enhanced
compensation cheques as announced by the central government to the kin of the
1984 anti-Sikh riot victims.

Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh had, in December last year, distributed
enhanced compensation cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to the 17 kin of riot victims in
West Delhi's Tilak Vihar area.

So far, around 143 kin of victims of the anti-Sikh riots have been disbursed
enhanced compensation cheques and around 2,300 were yet to be given, sources
said.

"Kin of several riot victims have not received enhanced compensation cheques so
far. In view of this, state government will distribute compensation to them and
later, central government will reimburse the compensation amount to the city
government," the official added.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             910 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

Police could have done more to stop looters, say experts

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 567 words


POLICE could have done more to tackle looting during the August riots, an
independent panel has concluded.

The decision by top cops to withdraw to the edge of riot-hit areas left
communities feeling isolated' and, in some cases, police forces did not act
quickly enough' to engage with rioters.

But the Riots Communities and Victims Panel also praised rank-and-file emergency
workers and volunteers who helped rebuild Manchester, Salford and other cities
hit by the disorder between August 6-10.

Their interim report said the disorder began with the fatal shooting of Mark
Duggan by Metropolitan Police. Violence broke out following a peaceful protest
by Mr Duggan's family and friends over the death.

The panel said rumours surrounding the shooting could have been more robustly
challenged and particularly given underlying racial tensions in Tottenham Met
Officers should have communicated more with Mr Duggan's family.

Although there was no single reason for the spread to other cities, the panel
chaired by JobCentre Plus boss Darra Singh concluded that social media and news
coverage did play a role.

Its report said: A defining characteristic of the riots was the blanket media
coverage.

We witnessed 24-hour rolling news and near-constant reporting of events on
social media channels such as Twitter,

Facebook and BlackBerry

Messenger.

It seems clear that the spread of rioting was helped both by televised images of
police watching people cause damage and looting at will, and by the ability of
social media to bring together determined people to act collectively

Data from courts showed 90 per cent of riot defendants were male and
three-quarters were aged 24 or under.

But the report said a wide range of people took part, including organised
criminals, those who deliberately travelled to loot businesses, as well as
opportunists and spectators drawn into riot areas through curiosity.

It added: These were not riots committed by children, but largely by young
adults. We do not believe that these were race riots.

Most convicted rioters were not gang members. Our conclusion is there was no
single cause of the riots and no single group was responsible.

The vast majority of crimes committed took place in London, but 386 crimes were
reported in Manchester and 188 in Salford. The expert group spoke to victims as
well convicted rioters.

One 22-year-old resident from Salford who witnessed the riots was quoted as
saying: There were large numbers of people involved, not just kids but adults
too. They looked like zombies, it was just mad.

A local shopkeeper was also quoted as saying: The riots provided a lot of people
the opportunity to see what they could get away with.

The report praised the response of people who cleaned up and helped re-build
after the disorder and called for a system of honours for those who showed civic
spirit, along with hero emergency service workers. It recommended a reform to
the criminal compensation system, saying some small businesses had still not
been compensated, and a change to the Stop and Search powers used by police.

The 100-page report said the final cost of the rioting could be as much as
£500m.

Although 4,000 people had been arrested in connection with the disorder, the
panel concluded that as many as 15,000 were actively involved in the riots. The
panel will continue to speak to those affected over the next few months,
delivering its final report in March.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: critical The interim report said police bosses should have been quicker
to engage with rioters'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             911 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                             January 4, 2008 Friday

More than 20 inmates and two officers hurt during Pelican Bay riot

BYLINE: Chris Durant The Times-Standard

SECTION: LOCAL; News

LENGTH: 319 words


Nearly 50 inmates at Pelican Bay State Prison started a melee in which 21 of
them were injured with stab wounds from cell-made weapons and two correctional
officers were hurt from ricocheting projectiles.

Pelican Bay spokesman Lt. Ken Thomas said the riot occurred Monday, just before
2 p.m. on the Facility A general population yard.

"Initially, we believe this is a gang-related incident; however, we want to make
every effort to find out who is responsible for this riot so they can be held
accountable for their actions," Thomas said.

Correctional officers used pepper spray, rubber baton rounds and three rifle
rounds to stop the riot.

The bullets were fired as warning shots and did not hit anyone.

The two correctional officers who were injured were hit with ricocheting rubber
baton rounds, one in the leg an the other in the eye.

"He (the officer who was hit in the eye) has undergone surgery and is
recovering," a Pelican Bay press release stated.

Three of the 21 injured inmates were taken to medical facilities outside the
prison, treated for stab wounds and then returned to the prison.

After the melee was quelled, officers searching the yard found seven weapons
that had been made by inmates.

Not all the prisoners who were on the yard were involved in the riot.

Thomas said there are anywhere from 150 to 200 inmates on the yard at a time.

"This is one of the largest riots we've had since the Feb. 23, 2000 riot,"
Thomas said.

One inmate was killed and several others were injured during that riot, which
lasted more than a half hour and involved some 200 inmates.

The riot is being investigated by prison officials as well as the California
Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation's Deadly Force Investigation Team,
the Office of the Inspector General's Bureau of Independent Review and the Del
Norte County District Attorney's Office.

Chris Durant can be reached at 441-0506 or at cdurant@times-standard.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             912 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Press - Victorville (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 29, 2012 Sunday

Victor Valley man recalls working during riots

BYLINE: Beatriz E. Valenzuela, Daily Press, Victorville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 726 words


April 29--For many Victor Valley residents, the Los Angeles Riots was a
frightening event that unfolded on their flickering television screens 20 years
ago today. But for Steve Myers, the chaos was very real.

"I was at home watching the riots on television just like everyone else when I
turned to my wife and said, 'I'm going to be going into work,'" Myers, a
then-supervisor for an ambulance company in the southeast part of Los Angeles,
said. Half an hour later on April 29, 1992, Myers was on his way from his
Victorville home to the epicenter of the riots.

Thousands of people poured into the streets that day following the acquittal of
four Los Angeles Police Department officers accused in the videotaped-beating of
black motorist Rodney King. The six-day civil unrest left 55 people dead and
more than 2,300 injured.

As referenced in Sublime's song "April 29, 1992," about the looting and unrest,
much of the anger that drove the riots was focused on the police department and
the justice system, which many in the area of South Los Angeles saw as skewed.

There was still anger over the five-year probation sentence imposed on Korean
American shop-owner Soon Ja Du for fatally shooting a black teenager Latasha
Harlins when the riots broke out.

"I can understand there were a lot of people who were angry," Myers said, but
couldn't wrap his head around the sheer intensity and violence of the riots.

As Myers drove into Los Angeles that night, the magnitude of what was taking
place hit him as he sat at a red light in the city of Huntington Park, just
outside of Los Angeles.

"I looked over and people were looting a 7-Eleven," he said. A few moments
later, he became terrified when he noticed several of the looters saw him and
began to advance on his vehicle. Myers was able to drive away from that
situation and into the heart of the riots: The intersection of Florence and
Normandie avenues. The same intersection where truck driver Reginald Denny was
pulled out of his truck and savagely beaten by four black men later known as the
LA Four.

Denny was rescued by an unarmed man, Bobby Green Jr., who saw the attack on
television and rushed to Denny's aid. Green then transported Denny to a
hospital.

In that same intersection, another man, Fidel Lopez, was attacked and robbed. A
black minister, Bennie Newton, who ran a local youth ministry, stopped that
viscous attack by placing his thin body in between Lopez and his assailants.
Holding up a Bible, New ton ordered the attackers back.

Lopez's attack was also captured on film.

"We'd been deployed to natural disasters, hurricanes, and I've never been
through anything like that," Myers said. "That was the first time I ever had to
wear a military flak jacket. My EMTs had to wear them, too."

According to Myers, during the first night of the riots, EMTs were responding to
calls without protection.

"The firefighters were fighting fires and the police were dealing with the
looters," he said. "I had EMTs telling me people were shooting at them. I told
them to get out of there."

He said it wasn't until the following morning when Myers heard sirens coming
toward his command post. The California Highway Patrol was able to assist and
provide the first responders with some protection.

"Then the National Guard came in," he said. Ten thousand troops were deployed
during the unrest.

For the entire duration of the riots, Myers and his teams worked tirelessly
running call after call, assisting LAPD and Los Angeles Fire personnel in any
way they could.

"We had people come up to us during that time and even weeks after the riots
thanking us for being there and for helping," Myers said proudly.

Myers has a lot of memories and mementos from those frightening six days and
nights near the intersection of Florence and Normandie avenues, including
pictures of him and his crew alongside military vehicles. As he looks over them
in his Phelan home, it's still hard for him to believe so much time had gone by
since the city of Los Angeles burned.

"That is something that I will always remember," he said. "I look at my pictures
but I can't believe it's been 20 years."

Beatriz E. Valenzuela may be

reached at (760) 951-6276 or at

BValenzuela@VVDailyPress.com

___ (c)2012 the Daily Press (Victorville, Calif.) Visit the Daily Press
(Victorville, Calif.) at www.vvdailypress.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120429-VV-Victor-Valley-man-recalls-working-during-riots-0429-20120429

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VV


                           Copyright 2012 Daily Press


                             913 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Calgarian among first to face riot charges; B.C. announces independent
investigation

BYLINE: Kim Bolan, Postmedia News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 559  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Two men, including a Calgarian, have been charged in relation to a stabbing that
took place during the June 15 Stanley Cup riot, Vancouver Police announced
Monday. Charges have been recommended against another six people, ranging from
mischief and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the
suspects have previous criminal histories.

Also on Monday, Premier Christy Clark announced that an independent panel will
investigate the riot. It is to report to the province by Aug. 31 and its
findings will be made public.

Among other things, the panel will begin by looking at the Stanley Cup riot of
1994, the availability of liquor to the thousands that had gathered in the
streets to watch the final game and what needs to be done to avoid a repetition
of riots at future public events.

"Shameful acts like those seen around the world demand a tough, independent and
critical eye -and that's exactly what we expect this review to deliver,"said
Solicitor General Shirley Bond in a statement. "It must look back, given the
events 17 years before and the many reviews that followed. And it must look
forward, to ensure Vancouver reclaims its place on the world stage as a vibrant,
safe city in which to celebrate, no matter the nature of the event or the size
of the crowd."

Burnaby, B.C., resident Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, has been charged with
aggravated assault after two men were stabbed. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle
Evans, 27, has been charged with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public
peace in the same incident.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young man
from Ladner, B.C., accused of vandalizing a pickup truck, a 19-year-old accused
of looting a purse from the Bay and a 17-yearold, accused in trying to set a
police car ablaze.

The newly established Integrated Riot Investigation Team is working its way
through thousands of photographs and video images from the riot to identify
those who committed criminal acts.

Vancouver Police are urging those who were caught in the act to come forward and
turn themselves in.

"If you come in voluntarily you can do so discreetly and at a time that is
convenient for you," police chief Jim Chu said Monday. "If you wait until we
find you -and we will find you -we will arrest you in a public manner suitable
to the public crimes you have committed."

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said -that
anarchists and criminals started the trouble, while others without criminal
histories soon joined in.

"Based on the best information we had the following morning, we stated that the
instigators among the mob were 'criminals, anarchists and thugs who came to town
bent on destruction and mayhem' regardless of the outcome of the game," Chu
said.

"While we are still standing by that observation about the instigators, we are
learning that most of the people that joined in the riot and that have now been
charged represent a wider spectrum of young people, many of whom do not have
criminal records."

RCMP Asst. Commissioner Craig Callens said the federal force is eager to help
out with the riot probe.

By Monday morning, 117 people had been arrested -mostly the night of the riot
for breach of the peace.

So far about a dozen people have turned themselves in to the Vancouver police
and three to other police agencies, Chu said.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postmedia News Archive; Vancouver Police Chief Jim Chu urges rioters to
come forward and turn themselves in to police.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 The Calgary Herald, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             914 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   Chambersburg Public Opinion (Pennsylvania)

                            July 11, 2007 Wednesday

Police charge 2 men in connection with 'riot'

BYLINE: By VICKY TAYLOR Staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 586 words


Two more people have been charged in connection with incidents that allegedly
led to what police are calling a late-night riot June 17 on Garman Drive.

Shawn Anthony Cameron, 20, and his brother, Robert Bruce Cameron III, who both
live at 70 Garman Drive where the fight took place, have been charged with
incidents that took place before the fight.

Shawn Cameron has also been charged with riot, which police define as engaging
in a large fight with numerous other individuals.

According to affidavits filed in the two cases, a fight started at 8:45 p.m.
that night in the parking lot at Wal-Mart on Lincoln Way East in Guilford
Township when Robert Cameron allegedly slapped Charles Lynch, 20, in the face
with his open hand. That fight, considered a predecessor to the riot, was not
reported to police at that time.

Police allege in that charging document that Shawn Cameron later contacted
several other people, asking them to come to the Garman Drive residence because
he anticipated a fight with another group of individuals as a result of the
earlier fight.

Police were dispatched to the Garman Drive address at 11:15 p.m. to break up
what investigators called a large fight.

Police allege Shawn Cameron was one of the participants in that fight, which
involved weapons such as broken bottles, bats and metal pipes.

Two Chambersburg men -- William Kalathas and Jason Deeb -- were injured. Deeb
was flown to Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, where he spent several
days. Kalathas was treated in Chambersburg Hospital's emergency room and
released.

Two vehicles were also damaged.

Police also allege that the Cameron brothers stopped their car in front of a
vehicle driven by Lynch later after the fight was broken up, then got out and
attacked Lynch and his passenger, Troy Mac Innes, 20.

Shawn Cameron allegedly struck Lynch on the left side of the head with a black
crow-bar type of instrument and Robert Cameron allegedly hit Mac Innes in the
head and face with his fist.

Robert Cameron is charged with disorderly conduct and harassment.

Shawn Cameron is charged with riot, simple assault, disorderly conduct and
harassment.

All of the charges except the riot charge are misdemeanors or summary offenses.
Riot is a third-degree felony charge.

Preliminary hearings are scheduled for both of the Camerons on Aug. 14.

Lynch, who has also been charged with riot and disorderly conduct in connection
with the late night fight, will also have a preliminary hearing on Aug. 14.

Two defendants in that riot case have waived preliminary hearings in the case,
including Mac Innes and Matthew Mowery, 18.

Mac Innes and Mowery are both charged with aggravated assault, a first-degree
felony, riot and disorderly conduct.

A preliminary hearing for another man charged in the case, 27-year-old
Christopher Scott, is expected to be conducted next week. He is charged with
aggravated assault, riot, disorderly conduct and two counts of criminal
mischief.

Another defendant in the case, Christopher Gonder, 19, will have a preliminary
hearing Aug. 21. He is charged with aggravated assault, riot, disorderly conduct
and criminal mischief.

Lynch, Scott and Gonder are in Franklin County Jail. Mac Innes and Mowery are
free on bail. A spokeswoman at Magisterial District Judge Kelly Rock's office,
where most of the charges were filed, said there were no bail requirements set
for the Cameron brothers and they remain free while awaiting their hearings.

----------

Vicky Taylor can be reached at 262-4753 or vtaylor@publicopinionnews.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                             915 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday
                              SAT REGIONAL Edition

Riot Fest: Show will go on at new site

BYLINE: John Aguila

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 596 words


Riot Fest organizers released a statement Friday saying their three day music
extravaganza will still go on in Colorado, just hours after Arapahoe County
announced that it would not issue a temporary use permit for the event to happen
in Byers.

On its Facebook page, Riot Fest said a "nearby alternate location" would be
announced early next week.

"All tickets will be honored at the new location," the statement reads. "Riot
Fest in Denver is NOT canceled, the show will go on, and rock n roll never
dies."

Riot Fest, which features well known rock and punk acts such as Primus, The
Cure, Wu Tang Clan and Slayer, was scheduled for Sept. 19 21 at May Farms in
Byers. It made its first appearance in the state last year, also at May Farms.

The festival was expected to attract 17,000 people a day to Byers, a town of
slightly more than 1,000 residents about 40 miles east of Denver.

Riot Fest organizers have 10 days to appeal to the county.

In her letter of denial, Arapahoe County Zoning Administrator Tammy King said
Byers had "a general sense of being overrun with traffic and people" from Riot
Fest in 2013.

"These impacts included residents having difficulty in getting their vehicles in
and out of their driveways, substantial difficulties in traveling to obtain
groceries and other essential services, difficulty in getting to and from work,
(and) difficulty in conducting farm trucking activities," she wrote.

King also said the county was not confident emergency response providers would
be able to serve town residents and festival attendees, given the crowds.

Festival organizer Michael Petryshyn, reached by phone Friday, didn't elaborate
on Riot Fest's plans. Local promoter Soda Jerk Presents also declined to
comment.

Festival fans blew up on social media Friday as soon as the announcement about
the permit denial went public.

"What are you thinking Arapahoe County?" wrote one exasperated fan on Twitter.

Another fan on Twitter suggested a different venue for the festival.

"Just play at Red Rocks, duh," the fan tweeted.

That despondent tone on social media began to change as news spread that Riot
Fest had a backup location in the state.

Brandon Whalen is scheduled to play Riot Fest with his band My Body Sings
Electric and was confident that Riot Fest would have a backup plan.

"It is a relief," Whalen said of the decision to move Riot Fest to a new
location. "I was pretty certain they would have a plan worked out, since it's
been three or four weeks since all this stuff starting happening. I figured
nobody sinks as much money into bands and marketing and staff without taking
steps to negate the risks of what could come with permits."

But if the event had been canceled, it would have put the band in a tough
situation.

"It would be a pretty big hit for us," Whalen said. "We're really trying to
build our r\xE9sum\xE9s for these big festivals."

Organizers had been awaiting word on a special use permit from Arapahoe County
after a public hearing on July 1, when residents voiced concerns about the three
day music festival primarily revolving around noise, traffic and drug use.

The county commissioners were considering two issues regarding the festival.

The first was the temporary use permit. The commissioners also were mulling
whether to grant a use by special review amendment, allowing May Farms to expand
its "agritainment" operations to an additional 195 acres north of Interstate 70
to accommodate large events like Riot Fest.

Riot Fest has two other shows scheduled to take place in Chicago and Toronto
during the two weekends leading up to the Colorado dates.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             916 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                              March 2, 2009 Monday
                                National Edition

The little drummer boy grew up so fast

BYLINE: Guy de Riot, National Post

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Diary: Guy De Riot; Pg. AL2

LENGTH: 318  words


This week's diarist is Guy de Riot, singer of the Gin Riots. The band will be
playing at the South by Southwest music festival in Austin, Tex., later this
month.

Greetings Canadianites.

Here marketh the start of a five-day diary all about me, your intrepid European
Music Correspondent Guy De Riot, and the troop of boys with whom I make my
music, The Gin Riots.

Wrapping up a week dominated by award ceremonies -- and, I might add, not a
small amount of irritating British smugness about the Oscars -- NME held their
regular alternative prize-giving session last week. The best band award went to
old codgers Oasis, and Pete Doherty won something for being a good solo
performer. MGMT got the best new band award as well.

The Gin Riots, meanwhile, had far more pressing issues on our minds -- namely,
how the hell we were gonna practice for our showcase at the SXSW music festival
in two weeks' time when we couldn't find a London rehearsal studio we didn't owe
money to?

Eventually managing to wrangle ourselves studio time at a not entirely
disreputable place, we were so panicked about the time we had already missed
that we locked ourselves in for 12 hours straight. We emerged battered, bruised
and in need of some Metallicastyle therapy, but with a lively little rendition
of Nina Simone's Sinnerman to show for it.

The aforementioned SXSW looks like it will be a right laugh, but also one
almighty music industry bum fight. We're confident, however, that we've
pinpointed an invulnerable secret weapon in the form of our pretty young drummer
Jack Riot. A wink and a nod from wee Jack -- sort of a cross between Johnny Depp
and that Mowgli character in The Jungle Book -- and even the most hardened
record executive's heart has to melt. None of this meritocracy stuff for The Gin
Riots -- we will use what means we have, and if that involves our gifted young
drummer boy taking one for the team, then so be it!

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White
Photo: Glenn Lowson For National Post; Guy de Riot is willing to sell a band
member if it means charming a record executive at SXSW. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2009 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             917 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           January 9, 2013 Wednesday

Khandesh: Riots, unemployment & neglect;
Presently, in news for the recurring riots, the taluka has been an illegal hub
of kerosene, petrol and oil adulteraion

BYLINE: Vaishali Balajiwale

LENGTH: 473  words


Popularly known as Khandesh, the northern Maharashtra belt comprising Dhule,
Jalgaon and Nandurbar has been popular for more than one reason. Presently, in
news for the recurring riots, the region has enjoyed good political
representation in the past. Besides, the geographical location due to the
proximity to national highway has made the region a trade corridor.

Dhule and riots

The first riots in the region triggered off on the day of Ganesh immersion in
2008 and took a wild turn, few days later on October 5, 2008. The riot had begun
on a small pretext of two communities tearing off each others' banners. The turn
of events was so violent that the city was under curfew for about 10 days, had
lost 11 lives and left hundreds injured.

January 6, 2013, was a small replica of the earlier riot. This time, the
preparedness of the mob to the riot was obvious. Pelting of stones, bricks,
bottles, acid bombs and gunny bags full of these items left the area under
concern and the people panic-stricken.

Illegal hub of fuels

Dhule is considered to be a developing town in north Maharashtra after Nashik
and Malegaon. It shares its boundaries with Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Lined
with the Sahyadri and Satpuda mountains along with the national and state
highways, Dhule has been an illegal hub of kerosene, petrol and oil adulteration
since long.

'Subjected to neglect'

The economy of the city thrives on trade. An area, which is generally water
starved, however, has not developed into an industrial hub. Though, there have
been efforts from the Dhule Industrial Corporation and the Nardana industrial
hub, the unstable social and political fabric of the city has not attracted any
industry.

One of the allegations made by the trade community in Dhule is the neglect
compared to Vidharba and Marathwada. They say, "The electricity concession to
industry in Vidharba and Marathwada is Rs1. But for Khandesh, it is 50 paise."

Unemployment

Though Dhule offers higher education in many professional disciplines, there
hardly is any employment generation. The educated youth usually leaves the home
town in search of a career outside.

During the riots, it was witnessed that it were the unemployed population which
participated most in

the riot.

too many leaders

Till 1981, Dhule was seen as a politically and socially established area.
However, things changed soon after. The city lacked strong leadership. Though
the politicians grew in Dhule, the contribution to the city was not evident.
Politically Khandesh has seen good leadership in Balasaheb (Madhukar) Choudhary,
Rohidas Patil, Eknath Khadse and Sureshdada Jain. Though these politicians
succeeded in solving issues pertaining to water supply and economy, their
success was cut short due to the emergence of too many leaders in the region,
thereby distributing the authority.

b_vaishali@dnaindia.net

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             918 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            January 10, 2014 Friday

Many of the riot affected in Muzaffarnagar are yet to be identified as victims:
CPI (ML)

BYLINE: Pankaj Shah

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 572 words


LUCKNOW: A CPI(ML) team led by the party general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya
visited relief camps in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts. The team also
included party Politburo members Swapan Mukherjee and Kavita Krishnan, Delhi
state secretary Sanjay Sharma, and leader of the party's National Capital Region
team, Prem Singh Gehlawat. The team was also accompanied by activists of the All
India Students' Association, Revolutionary Youth Association and the JNU
Students' Union President Akbar Chawdhary.

In a statement issued following the visit, the CPI(ML) general secretary said,
"If ever there was a riot engineered with the most sordid electoral calculation,
it was the orchestrated communal violence that shook Muzaffarnagar through
September and October 2013.

The main observations of the team were that a large number of those displaced
and rendered homeless by the communal violence are yet to be recognized as
victims by the State Government. Even in the nine villages identified by the
government as riot-affected, some 1500 ration-card holders who are currently
displaced, are being denied compensation and recognition as riot victims.
Moreover, residents of adjoining villages, who fled in fear as they saw armed
mobs attack their neighbouring village, are also not being recognized as victims
of communal violence, though their homes and property too were destroyed by the
communal mobs. For instead, while Lisad village is recognized as riot-affected,
the villagers who fled adjoining Hasanpur, that has the same Pradhan as Lisad,
are not being recognized as bona fide victims of the riots! Those who have fled
following communal violence in Baghpat too, are not being recognized as riot
victims.

The delegation also found that the residents of the camp are mostly labourers.
Having lost their livelihood as well as their homes, they are destitute now. The
riot-displaced people are understandably reluctant or afraid to return to their
villages even as relief camps are being bulldozed and they are being re-evicted.
Whatever land and other property they had in their villages is being
systematically grabbed in what can only be described as a campaign of communal
cleansing. Most shockingly, it is the state government which is endorsing this
campaign with its seal of official approval. Riot survivors who have received
compensation from the government have had to give written undertakings promising
never to return to their villages or claim any compensation for the loss or
damage of property suffered.

The CPI(ML) General Secretary said that a major implication of the Muzaffarnagar
violence is a disturbing communal division within the peasantry. The Bharatiya
Kisan Union led by the late Mahendra Singh Tikait has become acutely communal
and this means a major political blow for the agricultural population in western
UP who had already been reeling under a deep agrarian crisis and growing
pressure of corporate land-grabbers. Already the sugar barons have taken full
advantage of this situation ensuring that the cane growers got a raw deal. "As
well as extending all-out support to the battle for relief, rehabilitation and
justice for the riot victims of Muzaffarnagar," he said, "the CPI(ML) is
committed to working to rebuild the unity of the peasantry and the working
people and intensify peasant resistance to the growing state-corporate assault
on agriculture."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             919 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2007 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plainfield Ponders the Legacy of Its Own Bloody '67 Riots

BYLINE: By ANNIE CORREAL

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Race Relations; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: PLAINFIELD


THERE is no monument to the riots that roiled this city 40 years ago. ''They
have something in Newark, but nothing here,'' said Steven Hatcher, 45, chairman
of the Plainfield branch of the People's Organization for Progress, a
grass-roots organization that marked the 40th anniversary last weekend of what
is sometimes called the Plainfield Rebellion.

On Saturday the organization invited two black activists to reflect on the
question: ''Forty years later, did the rebellion help us or hurt us?'' Around 40
people gathered at the Plainfield Quaker Meeting House to hear the discussion.

The Plainfield riots, the second largest in state history after Newark's, lasted
from July 14 to 17, 1967. More than 10 people were treated for bullet wounds,
and more than 100 were arrested after riots broke out following a fight in the
West End, the city's black district.

There was one fatality. On the third day of the riots, John Gleason, a white
police officer, was stomped and shot by an angry mob after he chased and shot
Bobby Lee Williams, a young black man. Later that night, looters raided a nearby
munitions factory, carrying away rifles and ammunition. The National Guard was
called in, and the next day city and state officials began negotiations with the
rioters; a truce was announced on July 18.

''This is not a sellout. It's an attempt to prevent further bloodshed and
violence,'' Linward Cathcart, who was a spokesman for the rioters, was quoted as
saying in The Plainfield Courier-News at the time.

Last Saturday, Mr. Cathcart, 69, stood before the audience here and described
the city before the uprising as an ''indentured servant community.''

''We had no political clout,'' he said. ''There was no one we could sit down
with and say, 'We've been denied our rights.' ''

The 1967 riots accelerated community organizing efforts, he said, and prompted
an investigation into police brutality. Most important, Mr. Cathcart said, they
helped bring black people to power in Plainfield. Everett C. Lattimore,
Plainfield's first black mayor, was elected in 1981. ''And what do you think got
him there?'' Mr. Cathcart boomed into the microphone. ''The riots!''

Zayid Muhammad, 45, of Newark, the national minister of culture for the New
Black Panther Party, was raised in Plainfield but was sent to East Orange during
the riots. He called the Plainfield rioting ''a unique rebellion because the
community was armed and it put a check on the police and military.''

Walter J. Hetfield, 47, had driven from Milton, Del., where he lives now, to
attend the meeting with his girlfriend and his two daughters, ages 10 and 12. He
wanted them to learn about their family's past. His great-uncle George F.
Hetfield had been the mayor of Plainfield at the time of the riots.

The younger Mr. Hetfield, a jazz musician, witnessed the events of 1967
''through the eyes of an 8-year-old'' but recalled how many white families left
Plainfield immediately after the riots; his was one that stayed.

''There was a lot of fear and misunderstanding'' between the black and white
communities, he said. ''This meeting shows that the wounds are still here.''

The activists said the riots served as a step forward for the black community, a
viewpoint they complained was not represented in news coverage at the time. But
they could not avoid lamenting what had become of the community today.

''We can't honor that and be proud of this,'' said Mr. Cathcart, his voice
rising as he denounced the poverty, drugs and joblessness that characterize the
still predominantly black West End.

Holding out a hand to the leaders of the Quaker congregation in the wooden pews,
he asked them to ''reach out to our community.''

''We are in trouble,'' he said. ''We need help.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Forum: Linward Cathcart, a spokesman for the rioters, said the
city was still in trouble. (Photograph by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                             920 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Afternoon Voice (India)

                           December 26, 2013 Thursday

One more Congress hurdle cleared for Modi

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: India


India, Dec. 26 -- Ahead of General Elections, 2002 riots case was hanging like a
naked sword on BJP's Prime Ministrial candidate NarendraModi. Congress and media
had already declared him communal and a culprit. Some NGOs were hell-bent on
bashing him. However, Gujarat court on Thursday gave clean chit to him in 2002
riots. The court rejected the petition of ZakiaJafri, whose husband EhsanJafri
was burnt alive during the riots, challenging the closure report of a Supreme
Court-appointed Special Investigation Team.Zakia's husband, former Congress MP
EhsanJafri, was killed in the riots along with 69 others in one of the worst
massacres at Gulbarg Society in Ahmedabad on February 28, 2002. Proceedings in
the matter ended on September 30. It was on September 12, 2011 that the Supreme
Court had said it would no longer monitor the case after the SIT cleared Modi of
the accusation that he had failed to discharge his constitutional duty to
intervene swiftly to stop communal riots. The case was sent back to the lower
court.

Gujaratis are the people to judge Modi. They have voted him to power three times
consecutively. If they held him guilty of the charge, they wouldn't have chosen
him to be the CM for threeterms. This very fact absolves him of any such
malicious charges. He has proved his worth as an able administrator; the US
which declined him Visa too has acknowledged this fact. Undoubtedly, he deserves
to be a Prime Ministerial candidate. Little of elegance and modesty - that is
what it takes to change insights. Modi was defined by the Gujarat riots of 2002
because he has not been tactful enough to confess, despite attacks from all
corners over a decade. He never said the riots were unfortunate and that he
feels sorry for the lives lost. His prime, and ineradicable, identity has been
that of a hardcore Hindu nationalist. The image makeover as the messiah of
development came after 2007. For people who arefollowing him since Ayodhya Ram
Temple Movement, through the riots of 2002 and the Gauravyatra, it would be
difficult to set him apart from political Hindutva, with all its negative
implications.

Modi had announced three-day Sadbhavana fast to embrace Muslims. The fast,
started on his 61st birthday on September 17, 2011 had launched his campaign to
become BJP's prime ministerial candidate. Since 2002 till now, not a single riot
happened in Gujarat. All the people are living in peace. When a mistake happens,
it has to be rectified and not be repeated again, that's how life goes. However,
by raising 2002 riots issue, again and again Congress and other so called
secular parties are playing communal politics. When Modi became CM of Gujarat,
Congress was not happy and they were trying to capture power in this state like
they took power in Karnataka. So, Congress made a plan for newly,
administratively inexperiencedModi by burning a train at GodhraRailway Station
in which majority of children and women were killed. Congress knew that Hindus
will definitely react to this. Everyone was in a hurry to declare him
responsible for 2002 riots, but the SIT claimed that it could not find any
prosecutable evidence against the accused persons regarding their involvement in
the alleged conspiracy behind the riots. It had even refused to treat IPS
officers like RB Sreekumar, Rahul Sharma and Sanjiv Bhatt as witnesses on the
ground that their statements are hearsay evidence. On the other hand, Zakia has
alleged that the SIT has been shielding Modi and others by not believing
statements given by these police officers and neglecting the available evidence.
Zakia has accused the SIT of playing the role of a court by adjudging the truth
of the available evidence. Her lawyers contended that the investigation was
incomplete and the probe agency had not even done it seriously. On the opinion
of amicus curiae RajuRamachandran that Modi may be prosecuted for inciting
communal hatred, the SIT has said that there is no evidence to prosecute him,
and the incident alleged was beyond the ambit of its probe. Anyways,Modi got
clean chit here.

Congress is planning its plan B to get Modi again.The union government has
cleared an inquiry into whether NarendraModi and his government in Gujarat
illegally spied upon a young woman architect. The Centre's plunge into the
controversy known as "stalk-gate" has been reviled by the BJP. Stalk-gate rests
upon secretly-recorded phone conversations in 2009 between a former senior
police officer in Gujarat, GL Singhal, and other members of the anti-terror
squad in the state. Singhal submitted many of these tapes to the CBI. The
conversations allegedly establish that the woman was being tailed at the
instructions of a "saheb" or big boss - Modi, according to the Congress. I hope
the probe will start very soon and the Sahebwill come out of it and once
again,Modiwill clear his test.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Afternoon Voice. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 afternoonvoice.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             921 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 12, 2011 Friday

OPINION: Now London is burning...

BYLINE: Anthony L. Hall, Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 1387 words


Aug. 12--What happened here on Thursday night raised huge questions and we need
answers. The response to that is not to loot and rob.

We have officers in hospital, some seriously injured. It's a disgrace. This must
stop. A community that was already hurting has now had its heart ripped out. The
post office, shops, newsagents, the council building that deals with customer
complaints, were smashed to pieces by mindless, mindless people, many of whom
had come from afar intent on trouble. (MP for Tottenham David Lammy, The Sun,
August 8, 2011)

Mindless indeed.

"What happened here" -- in the multi-ethnic London neighborhood of Tottenham --
is that the police shot and killed a suspected black "gangster" named Mark
Duggan. And this ignited a frenzy of rioting and looting the likes of which,
alas, have become all too familiar.

Indeed, this seems an uncanny repeat of similar riots that broke out in this
very neighborhood in 1985 after the police shot and killed a black woman during
a search of her home. And those riots occurred only one week after the more
infamous Brixton riots, which broke out after the police shot and killed another
black woman under very similar circumstances.

Therefore, it was as easy to foresee that riots would break out after the Duggan
shooting as it is difficult to understand why the police keep shooting black
people under such dubious circumstances.

Which means, ironically, that the facts surrounding this latest incident are
hardly relevant. Besides, they depend entirely on whether they're being
recounted by the police or the rioters.

Nevertheless, I will note that it does not inspire much confidence in the
police's version of events when the bullet they claim Duggan shot at them, which
compelled them to return the fire that killed him, turns out to be from "police
issue ammunition".

In any case, I believe there are only two points worth mentioning here:

The first point is actually a reiteration of the prescient warning I gave in my
first commentary on the riots that had Paris burning in 2005 and which I
reiterated in one on similar riots that had Athens burning in 2008, namely:

[T]he riots in France should serve notice on other developed nations that have
relegated the poor to ghettos where crime and every order of vice pervade...
These riots demonstrate what little spark it takes for the simmering resentment
that defines ghetto life to set cities ablaze and terrorize an entire country...
There but for the grace of God.... ("World beware: French riots affect us all,"
The iPINIONS Journal, November 8, 2005)

So, notwithstanding the alleged police brutality that triggers them, the reason
riots continue to erupt in London is that political leaders fail to heed the
categorical imperative to address the chronic unemployment, racial/religious
discrimination, and social alienation that are the long-simmering sparks that
give rise to these periodic combustions.

It should come as no surprise to learn that Tottenham is a very impoverished
neighborhood with the highest unemployment rate in London. Unfortunately, that
Prime Minister David Cameron has rushed back from vacation and recalled
Parliament -- not to address these root causes, but to spearhead efforts to put
out the fires -- suggest that it's only a matter of time before the next
eruption....

(Incidentally, I find it interesting that so many indignant politicians are
using the term "feral" to describe the rioters' behavior. For, even though
undeniably apt, this term betrays an inclination to put them down like dogs
instead of treating them like the "stray" human beings they are; i.e., by
socializing and assimilating them.)

The second point has to do with the distressingly self-immolating feature of
these riots. For they invariably involve poor, disenfranchised, and dispossessed
minorities engaging in a "destructive mania" that only results in making them
poorer, more disenfranchised, and more dispossessed.

It might seem incomprehensible to an outsider that a person would engage is such
wanton destruction and pillaging of his own community. But if you have no
education, no job, and little prospect of being anything but a ghetto dweller,
then chances are that you too would have little vested interest in the
livelihood and functioning of your own neighborhood.

Hell, getting locked up for rioting and looting might just provide the best hope
some of these hopeless kids have of getting three-square meals and a bed on a
daily basis.

Now, lest you think these are just garden-variety race riots, let me hasten to
note that white middle-class anarchists seize every opportunity these days to
turn even peaceful street protests into orgies of mayhem and destruction. In
Tottenham they found unwitting comrades who were like the cork on a champagne
bottle that had been shaken violently for maximum combustion once uncorked.

But there seems no doubt that these anarchists and London's well-known
"opportunistic yobs" Â-- coordinating their attacks via social networks Â-- are
the ones responsible for spreading looting and burning throughout London and
other cities in the UK this week.

Meanwhile, just as the riots in the aftermath of the Rodney King beating
overshadowed the legitimate grievances about police brutality that triggered
them (and only further alienated the rioters from the mainstream society), I
fear the same will happen in this case.

The police have already made over 1,200 arrests, and that number is likely to
increase as they continue their sweeps based on CCTV images:

[W]e will not put up with this in our country. We will not allow a culture of
fear to exist on our streets

The Met Police increased the number of police deployed on the streets of London
from 6,000 to almost 16,000 officers. And this number will remain through the
weekend... We are making technology work for us, by capturing the images of the
perpetrators on CCTV -- so even if they haven't yet been arrested, their faces
are known and they will not escape the law. (Prime Minister David Cameron
addressing a special session of Parliament on Thursday, The Telegraph, August
11, 2011)

Indeed, with the purportedly aggrieved rioters perpetrating this kind of
widespread and indiscriminate lawlessness, is it any wonder the police will not
find the time to investigate the suspicious circumstances surrounding the
shooting that ignited their rage?

MP Lammy is right of course: these rioters are mostly mindless idiots ... intent
on trouble. And the only way British authorities seem intent on dealing with
them is by locking them up.

Truth be told, I'm all for locking them up, and bashing a few heads in the
process. But politicians are every bit as misguided as the rioters are if they
think this will do anything to put a permanent lid on the simmering tinderbox
London's ghettos have become.

Furthermore, the notion that parental discipline and political condemnation will
suffice is plainly delusional. I fully recognize that these riots reflect a
poverty of values as much as a poverty of needs. But this is what distinguishes
middle-class anarchists and yobs who riot just for opportunistic fun from poor
kids who do so to vent a lifetime of privation, victimization, alienation, and
utter hopelessness. Let us not forget why and where these (and previous) riots
began....

This is why targeted and sustained socialization and assimilation programs in
chronically poor neighborhoods (focusing on everything from mandatory
extracurricular activities to mandatory job training) provide the only hope
against these recurring riots. Or, in language UK political leaders will better
understand, these amoral scavengers must be properly domesticated.

NOTE: I am sure British authorities will use any means necessary to ensure that
these riots do not hamper ongoing preparations for the 2012 Olympics. And I am
confident they will take all steps necessary to ensure that similar riots do not
break out during the Games Â-- even if that means interning profiled
troublemakers for the duration....

To see more of Caribbean News Now, go to http://www.caribbeannewsnow.com
Copyright (c) 2011, Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110812-1CN-OPINION-Now-London-is-burning-0812-20110812

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CN


                                 Copyright 2011


                             922 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Storm front over Whyte Ave.: Conditions in place for more trouble, expert says

BYLINE: Karen Kleiss, The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 877  words

DATELINE: EDMONTON


EDMONTON - Experts say police should brace for a post-game riot tonight if
thousands of young, intoxicated fans gather on Whyte Avenue after the Oilers
face off against the San Jose Sharks in Game 6.

Whether the home team wins or loses, the conditions are perfect for what is
called a "celebratory riot," just like the one that happened last Friday after
the Oilers beat the Sharks 6-3.

On Friday, hollering fans, many of them apparently drunk, pelted officers with
bottles, pitched a pool ball through the windshield of a police truck and
smashed a bus shelter. Police arrested 49 people and laid four criminal charges,
two for mischief.

U.S. sociologist Jerry Lewis, who has studied sports-related riots for more than
40 years, says fans who haven't tasted victory for a long time are far more
likely to riot -- especially when they win.

The Oilers haven't won the Stanley Cup since 1990, and haven't advanced to the
conference finals since 1992.

"It also has to be championship play, or leading into championship play," he
says, listing ideal conditions for post-game turmoil. "Typically, the game is
close and exciting -- not only is the score close, but the outcome isn't known
until deep into the third period."

A professor emeritus at Kent State University in Ohio, Lewis says when a losing
team finally wins a close playoff game, fans go hunting for a natural gathering
place. That's where the riot starts.

Sporting events are the single biggest source of dangerous crowd behaviour:
Lewis counts more than 20 violent sports riots every year. While many are
short-lived and characterized by petty vandalism, some turn deadly.

A Boston college student died in a riot after the New England Patriots won the
Super Bowl in February 2004.

Eight months later, another student died when baseball fans rioted after the
Boston Red Sox beat the New York Yankees in the American League playoffs.

The growing number of post-game riots on U.S. campuses has garnered serious
attention from academics, schools and police. A 2003 summit on sportsmanship and
fan behaviour drew more than 100 participants from across the United States.

Still, nobody knows what is causing the surge in violent fan celebrations.

Most observers agree that alcohol often fuels a riot but isn't the source of the
violence. Experts agree the typical fan-turned-rioter is a young white male, but
they are divided as to why. Some say it's testosterone-fuelled excitement rooted
in strong identification with the team.

Others say the celebratory riot is motivated by the same thing that pushed young
men to swallow goldfish in the 1930s, conduct panty raids in the 1950s and
streak naked across campuses in the 1970s: youthful courage.

"There's some pretty good evidence that we're hard-wired to do some risk taking
... between the ages of 18 and 24," says Cynthia Buettner, director of an Ohio
State University think-tank and an expert in celebratory riots.

"In general, male behaviour -- whether it's genetic or socialized -- is more
aggressive than women's."

The young men who flip cars and set trash cans on fire are usually egged on

by cheerleaders, Buettner says, and

can even be unwittingly supported by innocent bystanders, who may prevent police
from getting to the centre of a melee.

Many experts point to the media as

contributors. Radio hypes the game

and TV shows reels of previous mayhem. Once the riot starts, cameras at the
scene encourage would-be rioters to perform.

Buettner believes that ultimately the hype around big sporting events combined
with more permissive social norms is the best explanation experts have for the
rise in raucous, destructive fan celebrations.

"I do think it is linked to the ... crazy culture around sports and the general
decline of civility," she says.

"But I don't think fans say to themselves, 'I'm an Oilers fan and so I'm going
to start a riot.' I think these are anti-social people who use the event of a
hockey game as an excuse."

Edmonton police Insp. Bryan Boulanger was a beat cop in the 1980s, when the
Oilers won four Stanley Cups, and is heading up the force's preparations for
Wednesday night. He knows from experience that revellers today come out sooner,
drink more and have less respect for authority -- and says the force is prepared
for them.

Officers will be carrying guns, batons, and pepper spray, and some will carry
Tasers. Police officers will cruise the bars, with others posted in high-risk
locations. They will be on motorcycles, on bicycles and on foot. The riot police
are at the ready.

And Boulanger isn't ruling out the use of fire trucks to hose down a party that
gets too hot, as police did after the Stanley Cup win in 1984.

"The protection of lives and property is always our main priority," he says,
adding that the total cost of keeping Edmontonians safe could hit more than $1
million if the Oilers make it to the Stanley Cup finals.

Lewis says tax dollars aren't the only social cost of post-game hooliganism.

"People are very proud of the victory and the success of the team.When you riot,
it really harms the true fan."

Premier Ralph Klein agreed Tuesday that violent fans are giving Alberta a bad
reputation.

"This is something to celebrate, not something that (should) result in
hooliganism," he said Tuesday.

kkleiss@thejournal.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Ed Kaiser, The Journal, file; POLICE READY FOR REPLAY OF LAST
OILERS CELEBRATION: Police officers in riot gear move in to calm crowds after
the Oilers' win in Game 4 last Friday.;
Colour Photo: Shaughn Butts, The Journal, file; Officers stop a woman trying to
break through the police line at Whyte Avenue and 105th Street on Friday. She
was later arrested.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Sports; Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             923 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

If Modi comes to power, nation will see riots: Mayawati

LENGTH: 299  words

DATELINE: Lakhimpur Kheri (UP)


Lakhimpur Kheri (UP), April 10 -- BSP supremo and former Uttar Pradesh Chief
Minister Mayawati on Thursday took a dig at BJP prime ministerial nominee
Narendra Modi over Gujarat riots and said if such a person is voted to power
"the whole nation will witness riots".


 Addressing an election rally here, Mayawati cautioned the people against
electing Modi. "BJP has announced Modi as its prime ministerial nominee in whose
regime in 2002 Gujarat witnessed the country's worst ever riots in Godhra... If
such a person is voted to power at the Centre, the whole nation will witness
riots," she said.
 Attacking her arch-rival Samajwadi Party, she said the "rule of law has
vanished" in Uttar Pradesh since the party came to power in the state and only
"goondas" and "mafias" are ruling the roost. "Murder, theft, dacoity, rape and
riots have become the order of the day," she said.
 Mayawati criticised the SP government for riots in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli and
said, "These riots have in particular damaged the Muslim community a lot."
 In her about 45-minute speech at the local government inter-college sports
ground, the BSP supremo gave a clarion call to the Muslim community "not to get
divided". "To prevent BJP from reaching the Centre, the Muslim community must
ensure that their unified support is for BSP and any division among them would
only benefit the BJP," she said.
 Mayawati blamed the Congress in particular and other parties including BJP in
general for the neglect of UP, the minorities, OBC and the Dalit community.
 "Even BJP during its six years' regime did nothing to improve the fate of the
country, as well as that of the poor and the weaker sections," she said and
appealed to the people to vote for her party's candidates - Arvind Giri in Kheri
and Daud Ahmad in Dhaurehra.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             924 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Anarchists' best friend Mystery 'Riot Dog' is hero of Athens protesters

BYLINE: Matthew Day

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 178 words


A mystery dog that has braved the tear gas and petrol bombs of every Athens riot
since 2008 has become an unlikely darling of the country's radical Left and
anarchists.

Photographs show the sandy mongrel in the thick of the action on the side of the
rioters, apparently revelling in the violent confrontations and unfazed by
missiles and pepper spray.

He has been given his own Facebook page under the name Riot Dog, with thousands
of fans expressing their admiration.

"The dog is a real hero," wrote one supporter, while another boasted "Pepper
spray? Riot Dog eats it for breakfast." Although the slogan "Riot Dog was here"
has been sprayed on walls and even police cars in the Greek capital, the true
identity of the dog remains a mystery.

He is also known as Protest Dog, Kanellos, and Louk, after the type of sausage
he, apparently, likes.

The mystery over his identity deepened following allegations that the original
Riot Dog died in battle, and was replaced with a double.

A photograph was produced showing an inert Riot Dog lying in front of police
lines.

Matthew Day

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The mongrel has been pictured in the thick of the action at riots in
the Greek capital since 2008 but its identity remains unknown
AFP/GETTY/ LOUISA GOULIAMAK/ AP PHOTO/THANASSIS STAVRAKIS/ PETROS GIANNAKOURIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             925 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 12, 2005

Saudi prince changes Fox's Paris riots coverage

LENGTH: 293 words



HIGHLIGHT: 4pm: Fox News was ordered to alter its coverage of the riots in
France after a Saudi prince who owns shares in owner News Corporation complained
to Rupert Murdoch. By Claire Cozens.


Fox News was ordered to alter its coverage of the riots in France after a Saudi
prince who owns shares in owner News Corporation complained to Rupert Murdoch,
according to reports.

Prince Alwaleed bin Talal bin Abdul aziz Al-Saud told a conference in Dubai he
had telephoned Mr Murdoch after seeing a strapline on the news channel
describing the disturbances as "Muslim riots".

"I picked up the phone and called Murdoch and said that I was speaking not as a
shareholder, but as a viewer of Fox. I said that these are not Muslim riots,
they are riots," Campaign Middle East magazine quoted the prince as saying.

"He investigated the matter and called Fox and within half an hour it was
changed from 'Muslim riots' to 'civil riots'."

The prince said his intervention had been an example of how Muslim people can
change the portrayal of their religion in the western media - although few Fox
viewers will have his contacts.

It is not the first time he has admitted to trying to influence Mr Murdoch's
coverage of sensitive issues.

In a recent Financial Times interview he said he did not wish to "intrude" into
the management of companies in which he holds shares.

But he said he did talk to Mr Murdoch and Richard Parsons, the chief executive
of AOL Time Warner, about where he believed the media had got things wrong.

"My job is to open their eyes to things they may not have seen," he said.

Last month's rioting marked France's worst unrest since the student riots of May
1968. Thousands of cars were set alight following the death of two teenage boys
who were allegedly being pursued by police.

To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone
020 7239 9857

If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved


                             926 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Hock Lee bus riots caused by fare hikes? No!

                               September 16, 1996

Jason Leow


The Hock Lee bus riots were caused by a rise in bus fares -or so some students
said in a recent Education Ministry quiz on Singapore's history. At the Teachers
Day Rally on Sept 8, Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong revealed that students were
generally ignorant about the country's past. In particular, they knew little
about The Plen, Dr Albert Winsemius, the Emergency and the Hock Lee riots.

Jason Leow of the Political Desk gives a brief re-cap of these key figures and
events.

THE HOCK LEE BUS RIOTS:

In the News: Singapore's past

* What happened: On May 12, 1955, a strike broke out at the Hock Lee Bus Company
over the dismissal of about 200 members of the Singapore Bus Workers' Union.

This later erupted into a full-scale riot between the police and striking
workers.

The situation was further complicated when about 2,000 Chinese middle-school
students went to the scene to show their sympathy and lend their support.

Four people were killed and 31 injured.

The riots were a result of the communists instigating students and workers to
confront the authorities so that communist control could be expanded.

* Lessons from the riot: "If the same incident happened now, we would pay a high
price as our economic stability would be destroyed. But I doubt our present
economic and political conditions would yield such sentiments, Singapore being
in an anti-communist region.

"Our younger generation, especially, should learn about this event, as students
were used as tools against the Government." -Mr Chin Chong Cham, a business
consultant and a member of the National Archives Board.

* What the students thought: The riots were caused by a rise in bus fares and
poor working conditions.


SECTION: Home; In the News; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 480 words

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLOODSHED AND DESTRUCTION: Lives were lost and 31 people were injured
when Singaporeans turned on each other during the Hock Lee Bus riots which
erupted on May 12, 1955. Contrary to what many students today believe, the riots
were communist-instigated, not caused by a hike in bus fares. -File picture.

                 Copyright 1996 The Straits Times Press Limited


                             927 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                     January 30, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Why Rahul Gandhi's comment on 1984 anti-Sikh Riots may cost Congress Lok Sabha
elections

LENGTH: 481  words


New Delhi: Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi's comparison of the 1984
anti-Sikh riots with the 2002 communal violence in Gujarat seems to have
back-fired for his party in the run-up to the upcoming general elections.

A day after the Congress vice president's admission of possible involvement of
Congress leaders in the massacre of Sikhs in 1984, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind
Kejriwal on Wednesday demanded a SIT probe into the incident in which over 8,000
people were killed, including 3,000 in Delhi. The violence took place following
the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards.

"I met Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung and put forward our demand of a probe by
Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. The L-G is very
positive on it. We will discuss the special investigation team formation and its
terms in the next cabinet meeting," Kejriwal said.

Kejriwal's demand has been backed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Akali
Dal.

In an interview to a television channel on Monday, Rahul had drawn a comparison
between the pogroms saying that the Narendra Modi government was responsible for
"abetting and pushing" the 2002 Gujarat riots while the Congress government
tried to stop the 1984 riots.

At the same time, he admitted that "some Congress men were probably involved in
1984 anti-Sikh riots and they have been punished for it".

Ill timing

The timing of the statement goes against Congress fortunes as far as the Lok
Sabha election is concerned. The party has recently suffered major defeat in
four states - Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh - and now this
statement by Rahul Gandhi bleaks its future to make a progress.

Possible loss of Sikh vote bank

The fact Prime Minister Manmohan Singh belong to the Sikh community, Rahul
should have been very careful while admitting that some Congress leaders might
have been involved in the anti-Sikh riots of 1984. This statement may annoy Sikh
voters who had supported Congress.

Congress' unwillingness to constitute a SIT probe on 1984 riots reeks of double
standards when the party had fully supported the formation of SIT to probe the
Gujarat riots.

Although 'providing justice to victims of 1984 riots' and 're-opening wrongly
closed cases' were parts the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) manifesto, the timing of
Kejriwal's move suggests that he may be looking to put the Congress in a tight
spot. The chief minister's demand is set to further strain ties between AAP and
the Congress, which provides external support to it in Delhi Assembly.

The demand for a probe into the riots is a long standing one and it has gained
more strength over the years because of the slow pace of the trial against the
accused.

Senior Congress leaders Jagdish Tytler, Sajjan Kumar are among those who have
been accused of instigating rioters to take revenge for the assassination of
Indira Gandhi.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             928 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             October 6, 2013 Sunday

Shivpal leads team of mins to riot-torn district

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 484 words


LUCKNOW: A delegation of 10 ministers, led by PWD minister Shivpal Singh Yadav,
on Saturday reached Muzaffarnagar on a two-day visit to take stock of the
situation in the riot-hit district. The team, part of the 'Sadbhawana Samiti'
constituted at the behest of Samajwadi Pary (SP) chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, will
submit a report to him after assessing the situation.

A red-faced ruling Samajwadi Party had decided to form a 'Sadbhawana Samiti' to
pacify various communities following last month's communal riots in which around
60 people were killed and over 50,000 were displaced. September riots and the
subsequent alienation of Muslims had threatened to dent the vote base of SP,
comprising essentially of the minorities.

The delegation flew into west UP district by a state plane and interacted with
various senior officials, including the SSP and the DM. It took first-hand
account of the people affected in the riots, including those who have been
forced to leave their homes. "This is for the first time that such a large and
high-powered delegation is visiting Muzaffarnagar after the riots," said a
senior official in Lucknow.

The ministers also met party workers in the district to know about the
prevailing situation. It is understood that the delegation will remain in
Muzaffarnagar for at least two days and prepare a report to be submitted to the
SP supremo.

SP sources said Mulayam had directed the delegation to ensure that committees
are formed in various villages to assuage the feelings and the ever-growing
apprehension between different communities.

The team, that included ministers Ram Govind Chaudhary, Balram Yadav and Shahid
Manzoor, also visited Kawal village, which was the epicentre of the trouble. The
ministers interacted with the villagers to assess the situation and deliberated
the steps that could help in restoring peace. As the district has witnessed
protests by women, the delegation also met their representatives, SP sources
said.

Interestingly, Mulayam is yet to visit Muzaffarnagar which was the first to be
affected by riots. Though there have been indications that he might visit the
riot-torn district, party sources said "he appears to have postpone his plans".
Sources added that "Mulayam did not go to Muzafarrnagar to avoid any controversy
as most of the political leaders were being stopped by the administration from
visiting the district fearing communal flare-up". Not even senior cabinet
minister Azam Khan visited Muzaffarnagar even though he has expressed his
displeasure over the way the entire issue has been handled by the state
government, sources said.

Previously, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi along
with Rahul Gandhi had visited riot-affected villages in the district. Chief
Minister Akhilesh Yadav too had gone to Muzaffaragar but had to face protests in
riot-affected villages.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             929 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Shivpal Singh Yadav faces Shamli riot victims' wrath

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 301 words


LUCKNOW: Senior UP minister Shivpal Singh Yadav faced a hostile crowd of riot
victims in Shamli when he visited the relief camps on Monday. People accused the
minister of paying lip service and accused the government of mishandling
situation. Communal violence in the district and adjoining areas left 48 persons
dead and displaced over 50,000.

After landing at the makeshift helipad in Chandan Lal National Inter College in
Kandhla, Yadav, who is uncle of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, left for Eidgah
where he met the riot victims.Yadav assured people that government would take
action against guilty and provide justice to the victims but was forced to cut
short his visit as restless crowd assembled at the spot started sloganeering.

He left for Jogiya Kheda. However, on way he spoke to some Muslim clerics and
assured them that government had taken the matter seriously and arrangements
would be made for rehabilitation of riot victims. Later, he visited several
other riot-hit villages and localities.

When media-persons asked him to comment on the alleged role of his ministerial
colleague Mohammad Azam Khan in riots, Yadav said "Khan is a pious and clean
man." However, he alleged that there was a political conspiracy behind the sting
operation conducted by a television channel which showed Khan allegedly asking
cops to delay action which led to escalation of violence.

Sources said that earlier Samajwadi party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav was supposed
to visit the riot-hit areas but cancelled it following reports of 'hostile
environment'. Later, he decided to send his brother Shivapal Yadav along with a
team of SP leaders from Jat, Muslims and Gujjar communities which constitute
large part of the population in the west UP and are most affected by the riots.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             930 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

Riots set the tone for blame game in Legislative Council

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 390  words


The communal violence in Muzaffarnagar district continued to set the tone in the
Legislative Council as the ruling Samajwadi Party and the Opposition parties
accused each other of engineering the riots.

While the state government claimed that riots erupted after BJP, BSP and
Congress leaders attended two panchayats in the region, the latter blamed the
ruling party of not taking necessary action after three murders in Kawaal
village on August 27.

Replying to an adjournment notice, Leader of the House, Ahmed Hasan, said that
49 people were killed and 71 injured seriously in the riots. He said that 174
FIRs have been lodged and 179 arrested. Hasan also said that licenses of 2,023
arms had been cancelled while five persons had been arrested under the National
Security Act (NSA).

He said that around 45,000 people were in the relief camps while another 4,000
have returned to their homes in villages.

Hasan said the riots broke out only after two panchayats were organised with an
objective to trigger violence. He said that these riots were incited on the
model of Gujarat and claimed that opposition parties were unhappy with the
decision of the state government allocating 20 per cent budget of various
infrastructure and welfare schemes for minorities.

Pointing towards BSP members, Hasan said that they had formed a government in
the state thrice in alliance with a 'dangai party'. Hasan asked, "Does BSP has
any ideology?"

Leader of Opposition Naseemuddin Siddiqui said that the state government had
instigated riots in connivance with communal forces. "Whenever the elections
come closer, SP and other parties associated with communal forces unitedly
incite riots," Siddiqui said, adding that issues of Mandir-Masjid are raised
before the elections. He said that BSP does not expect justice after any inquiry
in this matter. Siddiqui also said that the SP government should learn from
former chief minister Mayawati because no riots occurred in her regime.

Siddiqui defended the party MP and MLAs who attended the panchayats. "What was
wrong if they attended that panchayat? They did not make any provocative speech
there." He said that Intelligence Bureau has reported that timely action was not
taken during riots under the pressure of a minister. "FIR should be lodged
against that minister and he should be jailed," Siddiqui said.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             931 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

Pussy Riot, a critical assessment;
A Moscow judge sentenced the punk band to two years in prison. Dave Morris says
music snobs might be just as tough

BYLINE: DAVE MORRIS

SECTION: THE GLOBE REVIEW; MUSIC; Pg. R2

LENGTH: 850 words


Let us all take a moment and thank Russian protest band Pussy Riot for reviving
the possibility that, somewhere in the world, punk rock can once again be
considered dangerous. Before a judge on Friday sentenced the three young
activists to two years in prison for a stunt performance in a Russian Orthodox
church, the only feathers punk ruffled in recent years belonged to uncool dads
being bombarded by The Clash via their snotty teenage offspring; the rest of us
were putting Ramones T-shirts on our toddlers and posting the photos on
Instagram. Sadly, though, western punks hearing Pussy Riot's Punk Prayer - a
two-minute blast of loud, fast, sloppy riffage blended with choral harmony
satirizing President Vladimir Putin - might say, "Sounds like someone's been
listening to Crass," before sighing wearily in the singular way that only music
snobs can.

Oh, we jaded rock fans will happily co-sign Pussy Riot's political stance, even
if that's not what landed them in trouble per se. According to the Daily Beast's
Anna Nemtsova, nearly half of Russians polled believed that a sentence of two to
seven years was appropriate for their crimes; much of rural Russia is devoutly
Orthodox, and view Pussy Riot's transgression as an act of blasphemy against the
church. (The band contends that they were protesting Patriarch Kirill's support
of Putin in this spring's election.)

The Sex Pistols proved that you get more attention for offending the public than
you do for political dissent; the anti-monarchy sentiment of their single God
Save The Queen, released during Queen Elizabeth II's silver jubilee anniversary
in 1977, propelled the song to the No. 2 spot on the British charts during the
jubilee weekend. The Pistols were arrested for trying to play the song on a
riverboat on the Thames outside Buckingham Palace, but they didn't do more than
a night's worth of time - certainly not two years in a Russian prison. Pussy
Riot 1, Sex Pistols 0.

Musically, there isn't much to Punk Prayer. The guitars sound like they were
recorded under a blanket, the tune is unintelligible even by punk/hardcore
standards and the prayer bits are distracting at best. Worse, the song is in
Russian, which is impossible to understand. Accents are fine, even encouraged,
but punk is about short, memorable chants. You're not going to get many YouTube
hits if American teenagers looking for a phrase to co-opt in order to express
how much they hate gym class can't decipher a word.

Much more promising is Kropotkin-Vodka, a grinding slab of noise from Pussy
Riot's album Kill The Sexist, which compares positively with the lock-step
distorted grime of groups like Seattle's A-Frames. (If A-Frames hadn't just
broken up, we'd have suggested they collaborate on a split single. Does anyone
have Pussy Riot's manager's Skype ID?) According to freepussyriot.org, the
song's opening lyric translates as "occupy the city with a kitchen frying pan,"
which isn't quite as daring as, say, Suck My Left One by 1990s riot grrrl punks
Bikini Kill (cited by Pussy Riot as an inspiration), but is still fairly
threatening, and by extension, awesome.

And the group's output appears to be improving; Putin Lights Up The Fires, a
single recorded by the non-imprisoned members of Pussy Riot and released last
Friday, is a snappy little number with a snarling riff that recalls The Stooges'
I Wanna Be Your Dog and a breakneck pace that doesn't let up. If they keep on
like this, Pussy Riot could have a club tour booked before they even get out of
jail. And if they do, they can crash on my couch any time.

*********

SOLIDARITY

To Pussy Riot: Can music change the world? Only in very special circumstance.
Once in a generation, a band can create a moment on which society turns. Through
your brave actions, you have provided Russia with such a moment. Your fellow
musicians stand with you. - Billy Bragg

Dissent is a legitimate and essential right in any democracy and modern
politicians must accept this fact with tolerance. A sense of proportion - and a
sense of humor - is a sign of strength, not ... weakness. Surely the Russian
authorities will ... drop these spurious charges and allow these women, these
artists, to get back to their lives and to their children. - Sting

I very much hope the Russian authorities would support the principle of free
speech for all their citizens and not feel that they have to punish you for your
protest. Many people in the civilized world are allowed to voice their opinions
and as long as they do not hurt anyone in doing so I believe this is the best
way forward for all societies. - Paul McCartney

I know there are many sides of this story and I mean no disrespect to the church
or the government but I think that these three girls ... have done something
courageous, I think they have paid the price ... and I pray for their freedom. -
Madonna

As someone who has been in feminist bands I am both saddened and outraged. When
my band ... spoke out against racism, homophobia and sexism we feared not
getting a fair shake ... but never jail. - Kathleen Hanna (LeTigre, Bikini Kill)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             932 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                             June 7, 2006 Wednesday
                                 State Edition

Police face riot act - WorkCover claims lack of training, safety gear

BYLINE: KARA LAWRENCE

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 355  words


NSW Police is being prosecuted over its alleged failure to protect its officers
during the Redfern riot.

And bravery awards for those police on the frontline during the February 2004
riot have been delayed due to sloppy paperwork.

The Daily Telegraph can reveal WorkCover began action against NSW Police in the
Industrial Relations Commission four months ago.

NSW Police is charged with failing to comply with section 8 (1) of the
Occupational Health and Safety Act 2000.

The penalty is a fine of up to $825,000.

The section states an employer must ensure the health, safety and welfare at
work of all its employees.

This includes providing the necessary training and supervision and ''adequate
facilities'' for workers' welfare.

It follows a lengthy investigation by WorkCover into the conditions and training
of officers involved in the riot.

Almost 50 officers were injured and eight hospitalised during the riot, in which
rioters pelted officers with bricks and bottles.

There were accusations that riot equipment, as well as riot training for
officers and co-ordination by their superiors, was not up to scratch.

The court proceedings are in the preliminary stage and another hearing is
scheduled for July 22.

It is not yet known what the WorkCover case against the police will entail.

Both WorkCover and police spokesmen said they could not comment because court
proceedings were under way.

Meanwhile, The Daily Telegraph has learned bravery commendations for many
officers involved in the riot have been delayed.

Last year, an initial report to the Commissioner's Awards Secretariat is
believed to have recommended that up to 100 officers be commended for their
actions on the night of the riot.

However, the report was not detailed enough about the actions of individual
officers and another report was requested at the end of last year.

The police spokesman said that report had been received by the commissioner's
office last week.

''It is regretted the process has taken so long to reach this point,'' he said.

''The review of the nomination is a thorough process to ensure the actions of
all the police involved is considered and assessed.''

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             933 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 18, 2003, Saturday

Insurers may be forced to pay full cost of riot damage

BYLINE: Elizabeth Judge

SECTION: Business; 62

LENGTH: 530 words


UK INSURERS face more misery under government proposals to force them to meet
the full costs of damage caused by riots and other civil disturbances, The Times
has learnt.

The change follows a review of the Riot (Damages) Act, a 117-year-old law that
forces local police authorities to foot the bill for damage caused to buildings
and their contents during riots.

Under the Act, individuals and business owners caught up in a disturbance claim
for the damage on their insurance. Their insurers then have the right to recover
the costs from the police authority -which, they can claim, has failed to keep
the peace.

But a series of expensive payouts, which have left already stretched police
forces struggling to meet the costs, combined with a rise in protesters taking
to the streets, has prompted the Home Office to review the law.

It has released a consultation paper and is considering further action. Experts
predict that the Act will be repealed, forcing insurers to foot the entire bill
for any damage.

Insurance companies, already nursing huge holes in their finances, have reacted
angrily and are urging the Government to retain the Act. They claim that
abolishing it would only push up premiums in areas where riots have occurred or
are likely to.

Some insurers would simply withdraw cover, they said, threatening the survival
of hundreds of smaller businesses that could not afford to pay the cost of
extensive repairs.

Malcolm Tarling, of the Association of British Insurers, said: "This Act and the
assurance it offers to insurers has played a key role in ensuring that
businesses in many deprived areas can get insurance cover. Repealing the Act
could have significant social implications." Axa, Britain's biggest insurer,
said it was planning to lobby the Government.

There is no limit on the amount that police authorities can be required to pay
under the Riot Act. Since 1995 the Metropolitan Police Authority alone has paid
a total of £1.5 million to insurers and individuals for damage caused during
demonstrations such as the May Day Riot in 2000.

Officially, riot damages can be recovered under the Act only if the police have
labelled a disturbance as a riot -when 12 or more people have gathered to use or
threaten violence for a common purpose -and claims must be made within 14 days
of the incident.

However, it is difficult for police to resist claims, and even when they have
made every effort to prevent a riot they can still be found liable for damages
under the Act.

Andrew Honeyman, of the Association of Police Authorities, which represents all
43 forces in England and Wales, said: "It is nonsense in this day and age that
police authorities should be held responsible for any damage that occurs in a
riot even though it may have nothing to do with them and the efforts they have
made. " Police reserves, he said, could simply not stretch to paying the costs
of riot damage on top off all the other costs they have to meet. It was totally
unfair, he said, that insurers could receive money from premiums taken out by
businesses and then recover the money from already overstretched police
authorities.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited


                             934 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  June 3, 1992, WEDNESDAY, THREE STAR Edition

DEATHS IN LA RIOTS REVISED DOWN, TO 45

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 147 words


LOS ANGELES - Investigations of the 60 deaths attributed to the Los Angeles
riots show that one-fourth of them were unrelated to the unrest.  The death of a
man who fell asleep while smoking in bed had been included in the coroner's
tally of riot fatalities. So had been the killings of a man who was beaten in a
dispute over a few dollars worth of recyclable cans and another man who was shot
during a drug deal.  All three of these deaths - and 12 others listed in the
coroner's official tally - had no connection to the unrest, detectives told The
Los Angeles Times.  A 25 percent reduction in the death toll - from 60 down to
45 - would mean that the recent riots remain the most deadly U.S. disturbances
in 75 years, since race riots in East St. Louis, Ill., in 1917 killed 48. In the
1967 Detroit riots, 43 perished. In the 1965 Watts riots, 34 people were killed.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                             935 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              July 27, 2009 Monday

Communal riots, Maoist violence on the rise but Orissa peaceful: White paper

BYLINE: Debabrata Mohanty

LENGTH: 191  words

DATELINE: Bhubaneswar


Incidents of communal riots and killings of security personnel and civilians in
Orissa increased sharply in 2008, a white paper released by the Naveen Patnaik
government shows.

The white paper, however, claims that the state is "by and large peaceful".

Incidents of communal riot rose to 923 in 2008 from 73 in 2007. Kandhamal riots,
officials say, accounted for much of the increase in the registration of riot
-related FIRs-1014 FIRs were lodged following the riots and 1218 persons were
arrested. The riots, triggered by the killing of Swami Laxmanananda Saraswati
and 4 of his accomplices, had left 40 people dead.

Maoists killed 74 security personnel and 22 civilians in 56 incidents across the
state in 2008. In 2007, 15 security personnel and 2 civilians were killed in 52
incidents.

The white paper also claims that police arrested 120 Maoists, recovered 785
weapons and about 80 percent of the explosives and weapons that the Maoists had
looted from Nayagarh police armoury in February 2008.

The government, the white paper says, appointed 2100 Special Police Officers and
created four battalions of the India Reserve Police to fight the Maoists.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             936 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

Reading the Riots: Commentary: The lack of support for victims is a scandal: Tim
Newburn

BYLINE: Tim Newburn

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 772 words


The August riots left the most extraordinary trail of destruction. Businesses
broken into, smashed and looted. Property damaged or destroyed. As this second
phase of the Reading the Riots project documents, the consequence was lives
substantially affected and, in many cases, irreparably altered.

The independent riots communities and victims panel estimated that the total
cost of the disorder is likely to be in excess of £500m, including more than
£300m in lost sales by businesses. More than 2,500 commercial premises were hit
- more than half the total official crime tally - as well as 664 individuals and
231 domestic premises.

Anyone reading the accounts given to the researchers by riot victims will be
moved by the emotion and desolation they often display. "We put all our effort
into that shop - 12 years into the business totally to build it up, and it just
went to rubble," said the co-owners of a Birmingham jewellers.

Yet in many cases the stories are incredibly positive. One of the strongest and
possibly most unexpected themes is the resilience that people showed and
continue to show in the face of losing their livelihoods, homes and, in the
words of many, their future. Far from "broken Britain", the overwhelming picture
is of a social order that was resolute and quickly found ways to reassert
itself.

The interviews with people who have sometimes been referred to as vigilantes -
those who came out on to the streets of London, Birmingham and elsewhere to
protect life and property - contain some similar sentiments. In many cases, they
too were victims.

Their actions were prompted by a recognition of the danger they, their families
and neighbours faced, and an awareness of the limited ability of the police to
control the disorder. Sometimes they were successful; often they too suffered
significant losses to businesses or other property. From Hackney to Handsworth,
it was impossible to avoid the sense that this was an expression of that much
misused word "community" in action.

An important question remains: could more have been done to protect the victims
of the riots? Certainly, many felt a greater police presence should have been
available. Reading the Riots has documented in detail the extent to which the
police service was stretched and in some areas too slow to deploy sufficient
officers to keep or restore order. The police themselves recognise this, and it
seems certain that one outcome of the riots will be a greater readiness to call
on large numbers of public-order-trained officers, should further unrest occur
on anything like a similar scale.

However, there is a limit to what the police can achieve in these circumstances.
We have argued strongly that the principal tactical decision taken by the police
during the riots - to prioritise life over property - was the correct one, and
very much in line with the best traditions of British policing.

Once one adopts this approach, however, then it is quite likely - possibly
inevitable - that large-scale civil disorder will result in significant material
losses, and that there will be many victims in need of support and help in the
immediate aftermath.

This is where, once again, the state must step in. The only way of sustaining a
form of policing that uses the least aggressive tactics feasible in the face of
widespread disorder is to ensure the state has the capacity and will to protect
its citizens in other ways.

It is something of a scandal, therefore - perhaps the greatest scandal arising
out of the official response to the riots - that the state has signally failed
victims in such great numbers. The revelation that less than half of those who
made claims under the Riot Damages Act have received any compensation is a
terrible indictment of the current system for repair of the social fabric under
such unusual circumstances.

In theory, victims of the riots were the one group to whom the government had
showed a particular commitment. In addition to the establishment of the
communities and victims panel to examine how greater social and economic
resilience could be built, the prime minister made the following pledge: "We
will help you repair the damage, get your businesses up and running, and help
you to restore your local communities."

But expressions of sympathy for the victims of crime and disorder are relatively
easy to make. The extent to which the state enables them to rebuild their
livelihoods, their homes, and to recover their futures - in practical and
measurable ways - is perhaps a better indicator of how seriously we take their
plight.

Tim Newburn is professor of criminology and social policy at the LSE

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             937 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Australian Magazine

                            August 27, 2011 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Rebels without a cause

BYLINE: PHILLIP ADAMS

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 649  words


Forty years ago, on my first trip to New York, I learnt that rat bite in the
cradle was one of the highest causes of infant mortality in the African-American
community. This in the once elegant Harlem, the black ghetto just across Central
Park from the wealthy whites of Fifth Avenue. Rat bite in the cradle! In the
richest city in the richest nation in the world.

Now undergoing gentrification to resume its 19th century status as a district as
beautiful as any in Manhattan, Harlem was then a place of poverty, danger and
fear. And the strange, surprising thing was that when anger boiled up it stayed
in the community. Blacks didn't march across Central Park to smash the windows
of the wealthy, to trash Tiffany's. They burnt down their own buildings. They
turned their own streets into hellscapes. It got even worse during the crack
epidemic with burnt-out blocks and no-go zones. Yet there was no political
expression, no organised anger aimed at the system. It remains a mystery why
communism never took hold of US cities such as New York, Detroit or Chicago, not
even in the most desperate times. According to Marxist theory it was capitalist
America that should have become revolutionary, not Czarist Russia with its
serfs.

From time to time there were enormous, violent and deadly riots, particularly
during the busts that followed the booms, when the tycoons hired armies of goons
to break strikes and bones. But it never gained traction. I thought of this
while watching the "shock and awe" images of the UK riots. The Great Fire of
London. Of Tottenham, Birmingham, Leeds, Oldham, Bristol, Nottingham. Unlike the
Brixton riots of the '80s, which were intensely political, racial and
economically triggered, what happened this month is a bout of self-destruction -
not organised by ideologues but by young thugs with BlackBerries. The riots
might have started because of inept policing, but that was quickly forgotten in
the fun of looting.

One of the epicentres was around the Broadwater Farm Estate, once the scene of
Harlem-like poverty and political anger but in recent times a Labour government
success story. Now Tottenham is largely populated with middle-class blacks who
had created a strong community with a very low crime rate. Childcare centres
were provided and a successful "Sure Start" program was helping the young. Now,
like the bewildered people of Harlem, they were forced to watch their best
efforts destroyed.

Certainly the cutbacks in policing and community support being implemented by
the Cameron Government won't help places such as Tottenham, and will deepen any
conflicts. But that's not the explanation for now.

People are dying for a dream of democracy in Syria and Libya. Countless
thousands of idealistic kids risked their lives in Cairo. But these UK riots
were different. The crowds weren't big, the neighbours merely helpless
witnesses. No lofty ideals were being expressed. Even our Cronulla riots could
be explained - by racism and Alan Jones. But for once in a UK riot, race wasn't
the main issue. It was largely opportunism and greed. Let's nick a big plasma
screen. The rioters cheerfully told journalists they were after brand-name
goodies. Not reforms.

At least the great smash 'n' grab riot in Los Angeles in 1992, causing a billion
dollars in property damage, was triggered by a major social trauma: the Rodney
King case. Though there is perhaps a link in the fact that Britain now imprisons
more of its young men than any other country in Europe, just as the US has
millions of young blacks somewhere "in the system" between remand, jail and
parole.

But the Tottenham riots and looting? Bea Campbell, my UK commentator on Late
Night Live, explained that while the riots of the '80s were triggered by
community issues and bad policing, and had community support, this outbreak
seemed to be violence seeking an excuse. It was testosterone, not Trotsky.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TAM


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             938 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                    NewsDay

                             August 26, 2016 Friday

Pictures: Nera demonstration - NewsDay Zimbabwe

LENGTH: 1201  words


Police fired teargas and used water cannons to shoots at demonstrating
protesters during a mega protest by Zimbabwean opposition parties in Harare. The
city resembled a war zone as violence flared up after riot police violently
interrupted an opposition political parties polling reform demonstration.
Parties were set to march through the streets of the capital to push for
electoral reforms, but were violently stopped by the police. There was heavy
police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks on major roads leading into the
central business district (CBD) of Harare, Zimbabwe.

A woman and her child walk past a barricaded road during the opposition parties'
mega demonstration on electoral reforms. Harare resembled a war zone as violence
flaring up after riot police violently interrupted an opposition political
parties polling reform demonstration. Parties were set to march through the
streets of the capital to push for electoral reforms, but were violently stopped
by the police. There was heavy police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks
on major roads leading into the central business district (CBD) of Harare,
Zimbabwe.

A water cannon truck shoots to demonstrators during the opposition parties mega
demonstration on electoral reforms. Harare resembled a war zone as violence
flaring up after riot police violently interrupted an opposition political
parties polling reform demonstration. Parties were set to march through the
streets of the capital to push for electoral reforms, but were violently stopped
by the police. There was heavy police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks
on major roads leading into the central business district (CBD) of Harare,
Zimbabwe.

A man covers the nose of a child at the back of her mother when anti-riot police
officers fired teargas at protesters during the opposition parties' mega
demonstration on electoral reforms. Harare resembled a war zone as violence
flaring up after riot police violently interrupted an opposition political
parties polling reform demonstration. Parties were set to march through the
streets of the capital to push for electoral reforms, but were violently stopped
by the police. There was heavy police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks
on major roads leading into the central business district (CBD) of Harare,
Zimbabwe.

Protesters attends a woman who was caught up in cross fire when anti-riot police
officers fired a teargas inside the Harare Magistrates Court building trying to
disperse demonstrators who had gathered in front of the court. Harare resembled
a war zone as violence flaring up after riot police violently interrupted an
opposition political parties polling reform demonstration. Parties were set to
march through the streets of the capital to push for electoral reforms, but were
violently stopped by the police. There was heavy police presence by 9am with
multiple roadblocks on major roads leading into the central business district
(CBD) of Harare, Zimbabwe.

Anti-riot police officers beat up an apologetic elderly woman at the main
entrance to the Harare Magistrates Court building on 26 August 2016. Harare
resembled a war zone as violence flaring up after riot police violently
interrupted an opposition political parties polling reform demonstration.
Parties were set to march through the streets of the capital to push for
electoral reforms, but were violently stopped by the police. There was heavy
police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks on major roads leading into the
central business district (CBD) of Harare, Zimbabwe.

Anti-riot police officers beat up a demonstrating youth during the grand
protests organised by Zimbabwean opposition parties to march against electoral
reforms.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/40/147705436140.jpg

Police fired teargas and used water cannons to shoots at demonstrating
protesters during a mega protest by Zimbabwean opposition parties in Harare. The
city resembled a war zone as violence flared up after riot police violently
interrupted an opposition political parties polling reform demonstration.
Parties were set to march through the streets of the capital to push for
electoral reforms, but were violently stopped by the police. There was heavy
police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks on major roads leading into the
central business district (CBD) of Harare, Zimbabwe.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/14/147705436417.jpg

A woman and her child walk past a barricaded road during the opposition parties'
mega demonstration on electoral reforms. Harare resembled a war zone as violence
flaring up after riot police violently interrupted an opposition political
parties polling reform demonstration. Parties were set to march through the
streets of the capital to push for electoral reforms, but were violently stopped
by the police. There was heavy police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks
on major roads leading into the central business district (CBD) of Harare,
Zimbabwe.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/46/147705436880.jpg

A man covers the nose of a child at the back of her mother when anti-riot police
officers fired teargas at protesters during the opposition parties' mega
demonstration on electoral reforms. Harare resembled a war zone as violence
flaring up after riot police violently interrupted an opposition political
parties polling reform demonstration. Parties were set to march through the
streets of the capital to push for electoral reforms, but were violently stopped
by the police. There was heavy police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks
on major roads leading into the central business district (CBD) of Harare,
Zimbabwe.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/62/147705437144.jpg

Protesters attends a woman who was caught up in cross fire when anti-riot police
officers fired a teargas inside the Harare Magistrates Court building trying to
disperse demonstrators who had gathered in front of the court. Harare resembled
a war zone as violence flaring up after riot police violently interrupted an
opposition political parties polling reform demonstration. Parties were set to
march through the streets of the capital to push for electoral reforms, but were
violently stopped by the police. There was heavy police presence by 9am with
multiple roadblocks on major roads leading into the central business district
(CBD) of Harare, Zimbabwe.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/13/147705437406.jpg

Anti-riot police officers beat up an apologetic elderly woman at the main
entrance to the Harare Magistrates Court building on 26 August 2016. Harare
resembled a war zone as violence flaring up after riot police violently
interrupted an opposition political parties polling reform demonstration.
Parties were set to march through the streets of the capital to push for
electoral reforms, but were violently stopped by the police. There was heavy
police presence by 9am with multiple roadblocks on major roads leading into the
central business district (CBD) of Harare, Zimbabwe.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/385/1279/3/147705437679.jpg

Anti-riot police officers beat up a demonstrating youth during the grand
protests organised by Zimbabwean opposition parties to march against electoral
reforms.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1279


                             Copyright 2016 NewsDay
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             939 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                             August 24, 2014 Sunday

50 years on, Ferguson is the new face of racial unrest

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 643 words


THE DETAILS are still disputed, but the essential facts are not: one day in a
long, hot summer, a white American police officer pulled a gun on a black
teenager, shot him dead with many bullets and set off a ferocious riot.

For a week, thousands of black people took to the streets, attacking police,
starting fires and looting shops. One person died, more than 100 were injured.

The violence had erupted after 15-year-old James Powell was killed by Lieutenant
Jack Gilligan outside an apartment building in Harlem. The date was July 16,
1964.

The Harlem race riots 50 years ago have been historically overshadowed by more
riots later that summer in Philadelphia, Rochester and Chicago, and then by the
devastating Watts riots in California the next year. Yet the violence sparked by
the killing of Powell was the catalytic event for what followed, the template
for the modern American race riot repeated with grim familiarity down the
decades from Harlem in 1964, to the Rodney King riots of 1992, to the violence,
protests and continuing unrest today in Ferguson, Missouri.

These repeated explosions not only start in the same way - a bloody
confrontation between a young black man and a white officer igniting the dry
tinder of racial inequality - but end in depressingly similar fashion: an
investigative commission, a determination to improve black lives, then inaction.

Polls show that the riots in Ferguson are viewed very differently from each side
of the racial divide: from the white perspective, this is a problem of law and
order; from the black vantage point, it is a racial issue.

A new Pew survey indicates that while 80 per cent of blacks believe the killing
of Michael Brown raises important issues about race, less than half as many
whites agree; blacks are more than twice as likely to distrust whatever emerges
from the promised investigation.

In other words, America's deep and often unacknowledged racial divide is
reflected not only in the causes of the riots, but in the wider public reactions
to them.

On one side anger and anxiety; on the other widespread indifference.

In the wake of the 1960s race riots President Johnson set up a commission under
the Illinois governor Otto Kerner to investigate the unrest. His report was
solidly researched, almost wholly sensible and now largely forgotten. It pointed
out that in every case rioting was sparked by a confrontation with a police
force seen by the black community as racist, invasive and unconcerned with
protecting black citizens. It also concluded that the problem went far deeper
than policing, noting that the underlying causes lay in chronic unemployment,
unequal healthcare and education.

"The system of failure and frustration that now dominates the ghetto," Kerner
reported, could only be tackled with unprecedented levels of funding.

Ferguson is a textbook example of how the lessons from Kerner went unlearnt.
Nearly half of all black males in the St Louis area between 16 and 24 are
unemployed, with black people twice as likely to be jobless as whites. A baby is
twice as likely to die before the age of one if he or she is black. Nearly a
quarter of Ferguson lives in poverty.

More than two-thirds of the suburb's 21,000 inhabitants are black, yet its
police force of 53 includes only three blacks. A recent racial profiling report
showed that black citizens are far more likely to be stopped by police than
white ones, even though whites are statistically more likely to be carrying
contraband such as drugs.

The African-American community has made huge political and economic strides
since 1964, symbolised, most obviously, in a black president. But at the same
time places like Ferguson remain locked in hopelessness. TIMES

--------------------

CAPTION:

Holding the fort: The National Guard on patrol in Ferguson this week after
rioting and looting injured 100 and led to 500 arrests.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                             940 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

RIOT softball ends big season

BYLINE: Ed Castro

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 312 words


The Redlands-based RIOT 18 and Under Softball Club just completed its fourth
season.

And it was the club s best season of travel ball so far.

This summer was the most amazing time we have had,  RIOT founder Howard Zelener
said.  It s the most mature team we have had. It was a great experience with
great hitting, great pitching and great defense. The girls had such great
attitudes.

RIOT capped its season by winning the 2014 United States Speciality Sports
Association World Series at the Big League Dreams facility in West Covina.

RIOT consists of players from Redlands, Corona, Yucaipa, Anaheim Hills,
Wrightwood, Rancho Cucamonga, Fontana, La Habra, Indio, the High Desert and Las
Vegas.

It s a very high level of softball,  Zelener said.  A lot of the girls know each
other and have played against each other. And some of them will see each other
in college.

RIOT won, 8-5, over Rancho Cucamonga s Batbusters-Team Mizuno in the
championship game. RIOT finished the series with a 9-0 record and outscored
opponents 64-20.

RIOT s World Series run was a showcase for RIOT first baseman Alix Zelener and
pitcher Heather Morales. Zelener was named the World Series MVP. She hit .565
with 2 home runs, 13 RBIs, and two game-winning hits.

Morales, about to begin her sophomore season at the University of Hawaii, was
7-0 and finished with a 1.17 ERA, striking out 51 batters in 42 innings of work.

She was a dominant player,  Zelener said.  But the thing that was impressive was
her presence in the circle and on the field. She is really one of those
take-charge athletes that puts the team on her back.

RIOT compiled a 30-8 season record. The team also took top honors in the Pony
World Series in Hemet and finished second in the USSSA Route 66 Tournament in
Fontana.

The last couple years we ve won three or four travel ball tournaments,  Zelener
said.  It s been pretty amazing.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             941 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           February 1, 2014 Saturday

Congress rues Rahul resurrecting 1984 riots, giving Modi an edge

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, Feb. 1 -- Congress is concerned that Rahul Gandhi has inserted
anti-Sikh riots into the political discourse, shrinking its elbow room to attack
Narendra Modi on the issue of anti-Muslim carnage.

Rising protests from Sikh groups and the figuring of 1984 riots in news
bulletins has put Congress in the firing line of the 1984 riots that was till
now confined to individuals like Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler. Even in 2009,
the drama over anti-Sikh riots was provoked by the limited issue of Congress
giving election tickets to Kumar and Tytler before retracting.

If the Sikh riots continue to dominate headlines, they could draw parity between
Congress and BJP among opinion-makers and a defensive "secular" party would be
hamstrung in raising the ante against Modi on the issue of riots.

The key worry is the 1984 issue may now figure in every public interaction Modi
makes and it would be difficult to duck the issue.

With each passing day that Congress is having to defend itself, there ruling
camp feels it is losing its aggressive edge against Modi. It may be an advantage
for the Hindutva strongman who is trying his best to soften his rough edges
dating back to anti-Muslim riots and appear a moderate.

This has implications for the post-election scenario given that BJP would be
needing allies who have "secular" roots. That NCP is already making conciliatory
noises in favour of the Gujarat chief minister is an eye-opener.

There is a sense of regret in Congress that Rahul could not tackle the question
on riots effectively. While conceding too much ground, without putting Modi on
the defensive on Gujarat riots, his ambivalent response prised open the 1984
issue for debate.

Instead, he could have simply referred to the apologies issued by Congress chief
Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 10 years ago. When cornered, he
could have apologized in line with senior Congress leaders and settled the issue
for good. Many in the party blame the poor background briefing to Rahul for the
fiasco.

Now, there is hope that Rahul would make up for the lapse in the coming TV
interviews that are lined up. While leaders are happy that the reluctant leader
has finally decided to communicate with the public and interact with the press,
they would want him to appear engaged. This when future interactions may not be
easy to navigate now that he has bared the chinks in his armour.

Amid the post-interview disappointment, a big plus for insiders is that he
managed to keep his cool and did not walk out like Modi did with a famous TV
anchor. It would have been disastrous PR in the present negative atmosphere.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             942 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday

Three of the 52 riot accused get clean chit from cops;
Cops detain one more after images confirm his riot act; a section of Muslims
demand inquiry into August 11 police firing

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 169  words


The Mumbai Crime Branch has filed an application for the release of three people
out of the 51 arrested in connection with the riots at Azad Maidan on August 11.

The three men - Abbas Ujjainwwala, Anees Daware and Aslam Ali Sheikh - have been
found innocent. They were arrested on the day of the riot from the spot along
with 21 others.

During interrogation, the police found that the trio was not involved in the
riots and had been wrongly arrested. "We have filed an application with the
Esplanade Court under section 169 of the CrPC. The trio would be released after
the legal procedure is over," said a source from the crime branch.

The crime branch said there was no evidence that the trio had taken part in the
riots.

Meanwhile, Mohamed Mehtab Akhtar Hussain Shaikh was arrested on Monday in
connection with the riots in Azad Maidan, taking the number of arrested persons
in the case to 52. Shaikh's images were clearly captured in the photographs that
showed him created a ruckus and participating in the riots.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             943 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             THE WEEKEND AUSTRALIAN

                           January 28, 2006 Saturday
                           All-round Country Edition

Islanders ignored in riot probe

BYLINE: Dan Box, Natalie O'Brien

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 523  words


SYDNEY residents whose cars were smashed during a violent revenge attack on the
night of the Cronulla riots have questioned why police have ignored evidence
that Pacific Islanders as well as Lebanese groups were involved.

The residents, from Sydney's beachside suburb of Maroubra, said they had given
eyewitness accounts of the rampage, in which up to 60 cars were damaged, and
were disturbed that police and the media had focused only on people of Middle
Eastern appearance.

''It seems like the press want it to be a race riot between Caucasians and
Middle Easterns but that is not true,'' said one resident, who did not want to
be identified for fear of reprisals. ''Everybody saw it (the Islanders attacking
the cars), everybody said it, but it has not been reported.''

No charges have been laid over the damage to vehicles.

Police arrested three more men yesterday over the initial riot on December 11,
which began as a protest against loutish behaviour of young Lebanese-Australian
men on the beach but, aided by text messages calling for a show of force,
descended into a riot that had men and women of Middle Eastern appearance
attacked at random.

That evening and for several days afterwards, a series of revenge attacks led to
assaults and property damage, prompting the NSW police to pour thousands of
additional staff on to the streets over the Christmas period, locking down some
beachside suburbs.

The Iemma Government, in an emergency sitting, also introduced new laws
demanding that magistrates make a presumption against bail when considering
charges over the riot. But the NSW Supreme Court overturned a local magistrate's
decision yesterday and granted bail to a man accused of kicking a Middle Eastern
man during the riot.

Apprentice carpenter Mitchell John Newby, 19, had been in custody on charges of
riot and affray after being identified from video footage storming a train at
Cronulla station on December 11 and allegedly attacking a man.

Supreme Court judge Brian Sully said the laws still allowed for a person to
apply for bail. ''The evidence uncontradicted is that those offences, though
serious, embodied a type of conduct totally out of character,'' he said.

''The impression that I have ... is that he was a young man that was in a
situation that was volatile ... (and) found himself caught up in the vortex.''

Justice Sully said he strongly objected to the ''draconian form of
incarceration'' that Mr Newby had had to endure, being locked down in his
Silverwater Prison cell for 22 hours a day.

Yesterday, police charged the first person over the sending of text messages
relating to the racial violence, alleging Sydney man Brett Andrew King, 25, of
Loftus, sent two text messages 42 times urging people to meet at Cronulla Beach
on the weekend following the initial riot.

Three men turned themselves in to police yesterday over incidents linked to the
Cronulla riots. Michael Ceissman, 21, and Steven Elmir, 19, were charged over
their alleged involvement in an attack on 20-year-old Blakehurst man Jake
Schofield on the night of the riot.

The third man is expected to be charged with riot and affray.

Inquirer -- Page 17

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             944 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Chief defends riot response; VPD plan worked well despite the 'glitches,' Chu
says

BYLINE: Mike Raptis And Cassidy Olivier, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 533  words


Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu on Tuesday defended his department's handling of
the Stanley Cup riot and said the plan worked well despite the "glitches."

"We based the number of police officers we deployed on the street that night on
experience, information we received and professional judgment," Chu said as the
VPD released its own internal review into the riot that saw hundreds of
thousands of dollars in destruction and hundreds of injuries.

Chu said criminal charges resulting from the riot should begin trickling through
the court system sometime next month.

"The charges will come in batches," said Chu, noting that police still have to
analyze over 1,000 hours of video. "After the video is processed [and we] verify
certain facts, that's when the charges will start being sent to Crown counsel."

VPD Insp. Les Yeo, head of the Integrated Riot Investigation Team, said that 259
people have been identified through the investigation process so far. Of those,
47 people turned themselves in and 123 were named through tips.

Leo reiterated that police want to lay charges relating to riot offences, which
carry longer sentences on conviction, and explained that is the reason
investigators are taking their time in preparing charge packages. He said police
also want to make sure the suspect didn't commit more than one offence.

Other charges police are looking at include mischief, robbery, arson and
assault, he said.

The VPD review reinforced their position that there was nothing the force could
have done to prevent the riot. Instead, it suggested inadequacies with the
open-air Live Site's ability to regulate the crowds were partially responsible.

The VPD suggested the city not permit largescale events with standing-room
crowds such as the Live Site, where the entertainment was visible from outside
the venue's perimeter.

Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson said Tuesday he will look at how the Live Sites
are arranged to "ensure that the security and policing is all in place
proactively," while Chu suggested the new B.C. Place Stadium be opened to keep
the crowd in a controlled environment. The internal VPD report findings also
include:

- The VPD's "meet and greet" strategy remains an appropriate and effective
tactic to use initially, and the subsequent escalation of force - including the
deployment of tactical troops and the use of pepper spray, tear gas and
non-lethal bullets - was justified.

- The estimated 155,000 people downtown was much larger than expected - five
times the size of the Game 6 crowd. No phone calls were made to the VPD as the
riot broke out. As well, there were no reports from school liaison or youth
officers that youth were talking about a riot and there were no reports from
outlying police jurisdictions or from TransLink that a riot was likely.

- The Game 7 crowd was primarily comprised of young, drunken people, the review
said, suggesting "airport-like screening" at transit sites to avoid concealed
alcohol being taken into the downtown core.

- The review identified several regional and internal VPD planning, deployment
and equipment issues, such as the need for better regional training and
co-ordination.

mraptis@theprovince.com

colivier@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arlen Redekop -Png Files; ? Canucks fans riot after their team lost to
the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final in downtown Vancouver on June 15.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             945 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)

                            January 1, 2015 Thursday

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 434  words


TEN years on, the Cronulla riots are a spate of violence the country would
rather forget.

But author Peter FitzSimons is out to prove Australia has a long history of race
riots, and there are plenty of things we can learn from them.

His three-part SBS documentary series The Great Australian Race Riot shows how
the clashes at Cronulla Beach in 2005 were not an aberration on the country's
timeline.

But rather than feel shame over the past, FitzSimons says these bloody outbursts
are often followed by reconciliation and reform.

"The fascinating thing is we reel back in horror, but after many of these events
decent Australia rises up and says "~we're not going to live like that',"
FitzSimons told The Guide.

"Ultimately that strengthened the country. It's not that I advocate race riots,
but one upside of a shocking time is that it gives the country its bearings."

Over the month-long shoot FitzSimons travelled from Broome and Kalgoorlie in
Western Australia to Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney to trace events spanning 170
years.

"One of my great passions is for Australia's history and what I try to do in my
books is bring it to life," he said.

"In the show I tried to use whatever storytelling skills I have to put the
viewers in the moment."

Early examples include the Orange riots between Irish Catholics and English
Protestants in 1849 Melbourne and anti-Chinese riots at Lambing Flat in the
Victorian goldfields in 1860.

"The thing that fascinated me in Melbourne in 1849 was that The Age wrote an
editorial saying "~This is stuff for the old world. We are building a new world,
and we don't want that stuff here'," he said.

He even met a survivor of the Kalgoorlie race riots at the mining town of
Dingbat Flat, where white Australians destroyed the homes of hundreds of Italian
and Yugoslav families.

"It was incredible talking to somebody who was there, as a kid in 1934,
remembering all these things," he said.

"He said, "~My father knelt down, picked up a piece of corrugated iron, brushed
it off and started to build'. It's an impressive scene. What can they do but
build again?"

FitzSimons expects to cop some flak for the warts-and-all documentary series,
made with the support of Screen Australia's National Documentary program.

"I suspect this may be a bit controversial here and there," he said.

"But this is what happened. It's the good, the bad and the ugly."

The Great Australia Race Riot also features expert commentary by sociologists,
political philosophers, researchers and a riot psychologist who explains the
science of mob

mentality.

The Great Australian Race Riot - SBS 1 - Sunday at 8.30pm

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GGT


                    Copyright 2015 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             946 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                   Daily Examiner (Grafton, New South Wales)

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 434  words


TEN years on, the Cronulla riots are a spate of violence the country would
rather forget.

But author Peter FitzSimons is out to prove Australia has a long history of race
riots, and there are plenty of things we can learn from them.

His three-part SBS documentary series The Great Australian Race Riot shows how
the clashes at Cronulla Beach in 2005 were not an aberration on the country's
timeline.

But rather than feel shame over the past, FitzSimons says these bloody outbursts
are often followed by reconciliation and reform.

"The fascinating thing is we reel back in horror, but after many of these events
decent Australia rises up and says "~we're not going to live like that',"
FitzSimons told The Guide.

"Ultimately that strengthened the country. It's not that I advocate race riots,
but one upside of a shocking time is that it gives the country its bearings."

Over the month-long shoot FitzSimons travelled from Broome and Kalgoorlie in
Western Australia to Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney to trace events spanning 170
years.

"One of my great passions is for Australia's history and what I try to do in my
books is bring it to life," he said.

"In the show I tried to use whatever storytelling skills I have to put the
viewers in the moment."

Early examples include the Orange riots between Irish Catholics and English
Protestants in 1849 Melbourne and anti-Chinese riots at Lambing Flat in the
Victorian goldfields in 1860.

"The thing that fascinated me in Melbourne in 1849 was that The Age wrote an
editorial saying "~This is stuff for the old world. We are building a new world,
and we don't want that stuff here'," he said.

He even met a survivor of the Kalgoorlie race riots at the mining town of
Dingbat Flat, where white Australians destroyed the homes of hundreds of Italian
and Yugoslav families.

"It was incredible talking to somebody who was there, as a kid in 1934,
remembering all these things," he said.

"He said, "~My father knelt down, picked up a piece of corrugated iron, brushed
it off and started to build'. It's an impressive scene. What can they do but
build again?"

FitzSimons expects to cop some flak for the warts-and-all documentary series,
made with the support of Screen Australia's National Documentary program.

"I suspect this may be a bit controversial here and there," he said.

"But this is what happened. It's the good, the bad and the ugly."

The Great Australia Race Riot also features expert commentary by sociologists,
political philosophers, researchers and a riot psychologist who explains the
science of mob

mentality.

The Great Australian Race Riot - SBS 1 - Sunday at 8.30pm

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDE


                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             947 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            August 24, 2013 Saturday

Reports forged to claim relief in name of 1984 riot victims

BYLINE: Prawesh Lama

LENGTH: 336  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


Police are probing what appears to be a racket involving claims for compensation
in the name of victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

In the past one month alone, the Economic Offences Wing registered two cases of
cheating and forgery against unidentified persons who sent two forged police
reports to the Kanjhawala sub-divisional magistrate, citing the cases of 17
persons who died in the riots.

In one case, police have identified a woman from Jahangirpuri who was trying to
claim a compensation of Rs 49 lakh for the death of seven persons.

She has been named as an accused but is still to be arrested.

Police suspect the role of an insider in the office of the Kanjhawala deputy
commissioner and have begun questioning the clerks there.

The two forged reports at the SDM office were shown to have been sent by the
Deputy Commissioner of Police of the anti-riot cell in October 2012.

The reports had the names of the riot victims. Earlier this month, the
Kanjhawala DC wrote to the Deputy Commissioner

of Police, anti-riot cell, seeking clarification on the reports.

The police officers were stunned because the two reports had not been issued
from their office. It was then that an inspector of the cell lodged a formal
complaint with the economic offences wing.

"Initially, we did not register a case. We conducted an inquiry which revealed
that no such report from the office of the anti-riot cell had been sent to the
office of the Kanjhawala SDM. The letter number mentioned in the forged report
was not of any matter related to the anti-Sikh riots. It had to do with some
information sent by the cell under an RTI plea," a police source said.

The signature of the Deputy Commissioner of Police in the report had also been
forged, the source said.

When his comments were sought, Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) Sandeep Goel
said: "We have registered two FIRs so far. Two cases of forged reports have come
to our notice. I do not want to make any comment about the people behind this.
We have started investigations."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             948 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                            September 2, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Vancouver poorly prepared for riot: review; Police, officials should have acted
on deteriorating situation earlier

BYLINE: Jeff Lee, Vancouver Sun; Postmedia News; With files from Jonathan Fowlie
and Andrea Woo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 747  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Vancouver police and city officials should have been better prepared for the
massive crowds that flooded downtown for Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final, an
independent review of the June 15 riot has concluded.

The review found a litany of problems that plagued police as they tried to
control the incendiary riot - from faulty radios that prevented transmission of
a key command, to the improper location of needed riot control gear, to a lack
of a regional public safety plan.

But the authors of the report, John Furlong and Douglas Keefe, said that the
lessons presented by the riot shouldn't bar Vancouver from holding large public
events downtown in the future.

And they said they concluded Mayor Gregor Robertson played no part in directing
police planning or financial discussions, something he has maintained since the
riot broke out.

The report detailed how what was supposed to be a peaceful family-oriented
gathering for the final game between the Vancouver Canucks and the Boston Bruins
turned into a night of mayhem that led to widespread looting and vandalism.

Furlong and Keefe said the riot, in which at least 60 businesses were looted or
vandalized, "was not beyond imagining" and could have been predicted hours
earlier given the rapidly changing atmosphere downtown.

The two men, aided by a team of public safety consultants, made 53
recommendations aimed at improving public safety, major event planning, the
control of alcohol and judicial outcomes from the riot.

The report also answers one of the hot-button questions that emerged in the
aftermath: how many officers did the Vancouver Police Department deploy the day
of Game 7?

Although Vancouver police Chief Jim Chu has long argued that number is secret
for security purposes, Furlong and Keefe said keeping it secret now is a moot
point. They said the original police plan called for 446 officers to be
deployed. By the end of that night, 928 were on the job.

But they say that initial number was more than adequate to cover the city's
needs and noted that when the Chicago Blackhawks won the 2009 Stanley Cup, 450
officers and 20 horses policed a crowd of 1.2 million people.

"We conclude the number of police identified in VPD's plan was appropriate given
the threat level," the report said.

Instead, they said the police department's operational plan did not identify
criteria that would automatically trigger changes in responses.

"For example, the VPD's plan should have required a report on the number of
people downtown beginning late in the morning and providing options for earlier
deployment," the report said.

The provincial government appointed Keefe and Furlong on June 28 in an effort to
determine how the riot occurred and what could be done to prevent such outbreaks
of mob violence in future. Keefe is a former Nova Scotia deputy attorney general
and career bureaucrat. Furlong is the former president and CEO of the Vancouver
Organizing Committee for the 2010 Olympics. He was hired after he personally
offered his services to newly elected B.C. Premier Christy Clark.

Furlong and Keefe also examined the recommendations that came out of a similar
review into the 1994 Stanley Cup Riot.

There were some similarities between the two events, including criticism over a
lack of co-ordinated planning among police departments and the discovery that
again, as in 1994, malfunctioning equipment played a part.

The report noted "command confusion" ensued in trying to quell the June 15 riot
in part because the RCMP's tactical troops were equipped with a faulty Vancouver
Police Department radio. As a result, one portion of the troop did not hear a
command to suit up in riot gear, causing delay and confusion.

At a news conference Thursday afternoon, Chu admitted mistakes were made, but
that none of them ended up making a substantial difference.

Chu said police realized hours before game time that "this was way more people
than we anticipated," but there was little officers could do.

Police did not shut down the overcapacity downtown live site because of fears it
could worsen the situation, he said. "Had we tried to shut down the event, or
move people out of the area, that could have caused more problems."

Chu also commented on the "almost obsessive interest" in the number of officers
deployed.

"The review of course reveals the number and the fact that it was doubled in
less than two hours," he said. "But it confirms that there is no plausible
number of police that could have prevented what happened."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Clark, Reuters; John Furlong, right, and Douglas Keefe made 53
recommendations in their report on Vancouver's Stanley Cup riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 Edmonton Journal, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             949 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                  July 1, 2016

1984 anti-Sikh riot victims still wait for compensation

BYLINE: FPJ Bureau

LENGTH: 293  words


Govt highly apathetic to out plight, claims Jabalpur unit of umbrella body of
victims

BHOPAL: The Welfare Committee for 1984 Anti-Sikh Riots Victims, MP, has accused
the Bharatiya Janata Party led state government of wilfully ignoring victims of
the 1984 riots who are still awaiting compensation after 32 years of the
infamous riots.

Harjeet Kaur Gumara, joint secretary of the committee, Jabalpur, while
interacting with media, said the victims were distributed compensation in riot
-torn Coimbatore in 1989-90. And even 10 times more compensation was given to
them. But Jabalpur riot hit victims are still awaiting adequate compensation
after 32 years. She was speaking to media in Bhopal on the issue on Thursday.

The committee claimed that eight Sikhs died in 1984 riots while 804 suffered
major damage to properties in Jabalpur, while a total number of 76 persons died
and another 2000 to 2500 faced property damage in MP.

Gumara said that post riots two PILs were field in the HC over non-distribution
of compensation to the victims. "In 2006, the HC directed the state government
for payment of additional compensation to the victims but ex-gratia amount was
only disbursed in death cases and property damage cases were set aside," she
alleged. Gumara claimed that district administration in Jabalpur had certified
cases of 414 victims but only three victims received partial compensation till
date.

"Besides Bhopal and Indore, 1984 victims across the state were grossly ignored
for compensation alike," Amarjeet Singh, president, Jabalpur unit of MP Sikh
Minority Welfare Committee said.

Lajjashankar Herdenia, convener, Rashtriya Secular Manch alleged that not only
Sikhs, the state government ignores plight of each and every minority and weaker
section.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             950 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Minister to meet social network companies over riot plotting;
Two sentenced at Crown Court after disorder

BYLINE: Murad Ahmed, Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 646 words


The Home Secretary is to meet representatives from Facebook, Twitter and
BlackBerry to discuss ways of stopping people using social networks to plot
riots. Theresa May has set up the meeting in response to fears that this month's
riots were partly orchestrated by users of social networks. However, government
sources acknowledged that it could not compel the companies to turn off their
services, particularly as many are based abroad. A spokesman said: "Among the
issues is whether and how we should be able to stop people communicating via
these websites and services when we know they are plotting violence, disorder
and criminality."

Meanwhile, two men became the first people to be sentenced in the Crown Court
for their part in the London riots. Richard Bezzina, 43, was jailed at Wood
Green Crown Court for 20 months for violent disorder in Hackney on August 8,
while Steven Frear, 20, was sentenced to six weeks for possessing an offensive
weapon in Enfield on August 10.

David Robinson, London Deputy Chief Crown Prosecutor, said the prosecutions
served as a "strong reminder" that the CPS would not hesitate to deal with "this
sort of criminal behaviour." He added: "At the hearings today we were able to
tell the court exactly how these crimes have affected those communities and give
an indication of the losses suffered by businesses which were looted."

Four men from Lancashire appeared in court yesterday accused of using Facebook
to encourage rioting or looting during the riots that swept the country two
weeks ago. Karl Manley, 28, from Heysham, and Stefan Johnson, 21, from
Lancaster, were at Preston Crown Court charged with encouraging or assisting
burglary by placing messages on Facebook. Their co-accused, Warren Calvert, 19,
from, Heysham, and Christopher Schofield, 26, from, Nelson, were accused of
assisting or encouraging rioting or violent disorder. Pleas have not yet been
entered and all four were granted bail to appear for a further hearing on
October 20.

A teenage girl also appeared in court accused of using Facebook to try to incite
a riot in Wakefield. Hollie Bentley, 19, is alleged to have created an event on
the site entitled "Wakey Riots", inviting people to meet in the centre of the
city on August 13 and 14.

Wakefield Magistrates' Court heard that the "event" also contained the phrase
"Who's up for it?". She did not enter a plea.

News of the companies' meeting with the Home Secretary comes after another
minister described the four days of rioting as "one-off" event. Crispin Blunt,
the Prisons Minister, said that the prison system could cope with the thousands
of prosecutions after the "exceptional event". His assertion appeared to
contradict the views of David Cameron, who has argued that the riots came as a
result of parts of British society being "broken" and that a "social fightback"
was the cure.

Mr Blunt said that the prison system could cope and that the sudden rise in
inmate numbers was temporary. "We are completely confident that the prison
system and justice system are going to be able to cope with what the police are
producing for us," he told the BBC. "This is an exceptional event. There will be
a one-off increase in prison numbers as people serve their sentences. What we
have to do is make sure there are prison places for those sent to prison by the
courts and we will continue to do that regardless of how many people are sent to
prison."

The prison population reached a record high of 87,000 last Friday. On Tuesday,
797 suspects were on remand.

? A 16-year-old boy who admitted inciting thefts and criminal damage on Facebook
during the recent riots has been identified after a court lifted an order.
Johnny Melfah, of Droitwich, Worcestershire, is thought to be the first juvenile
to have his anonymity lifted in a riot-related case. He is due to be sentenced
at Worcester Youth Court on September 14.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hollie Bentley 'invited people to riot'
Ministers fear that the riots were partly orchestrated using social networks
PETER MACDIARMID / GETTY IMAGES; GABRIEL SZABO / GUZELIAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             951 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Cost of Vancouver riots continues to rise 5 years on; Stanley Cup miscreants
still exacting a toll

BYLINE: Brian Hutchinson, Calgary Herald

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. N3

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


One of the world's most livable, least affordable, most beautiful and
despair-ridden cities - the paradoxical Vancouver - observed an anniversary the
other day.

As noted in local media, sombrely and with no affection, exactly five years had
passed since the city's NHL team, the Canucks, lost a seventh and deciding game
to the dreaded Boston Bruins in the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.

Five years it's been since thousands of drunken louts flew into a rage and
proceeded to tear up Vancouver's downtown core, vandalizing and looting shops,
setting fires to cars and trucks, beating up peaceful citizens, threatening
police.

Those five hours of mayhem were a stain on this city. They left an indelible
mark. Even to lifelong residents, Vancouver's poor, drug-infested Downtown
Eastside seems anarchic and strangely out of place in a city of tremendous
wealth, but it had nothing on riot night.

According to an official count, 26 arsons were committed during the 2011 riot.
Some 112 businesses were damaged, 122 vehicles were damaged or destroyed, 52
assaults on civilians and police were reported, and more than 250 medical
emergencies were recorded, posthockey game.

It was an embarrassing, depressing and costly night of insanity. The "total
estimated monetary loss resulting from the riot" was approximately $3.8 million,
according to a report released earlier this year by B.C.'s Ministry of Justice
and Attorney General. The figure doesn't include the expense of prosecuting the
riotous creeps; that tally had reached $4,976,765 by January this year.

Good value for 912 charges laid by the province against 300 suspects, resulting
in 284 guilty pleas, six criminal trials and some jail time, mostly for taking
part in a riot, and break and enter? Perhaps. Were the prosecutions handled
expeditiously? It seems not.

The wounds still smart, and here's some salt: Mary and Joe Taxpayer haven't even
seen the final riot bill yet, because there are more residual costs for dealing
with Stanley Cup miscreants. And they continue to mount.

On Friday, for example, B.C. Supreme Court Justice Myers Elliott finally
rendered his decision in a civil claim brought by the provincially owned
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), which insures automobiles
licensed in B.C. ICBC sued 82 individuals, claiming they were responsible for
riot-related damages to vehicles it insured. Almost 40 of the defendants settled
with ICBC, while default judgments were made against 35 others. The remaining 10
defendants - every one of whom had already been convicted criminally and
sentenced for their riot night misdeeds - elected to fight the civil lawsuit and
went to trial.

Now, the riot has been written about, discussed, analyzed, parsed to death over
the past five years, but Justice Myers' judgment is still worth a read, and not
just for its conclusions, including the rather startling remark that the last of
the insurance case defendants had received enough punishment for whatever
happened on that infamous night.

Justice Myers describes their lunacy in some detail. As defendant Sean Yates
would eventually tell police, he "just went crazy" during the riot, and,
according to Friday's judgment, "started throwing and breaking things." Yates
spat on an officer, and "challenged the constable to come get him while
brandishing a metal pipe," according to Justice Myers.

But contrary to claims made by ICBC, Yates did not directly participate in the
destruction of any vehicles. Justice Myers found him not liable.

Fellow rioter and defendant Andrew Comber, on the other hand, was found by
Justice Myers to have been actively involved in the destruction of a GMC pickup
truck. After joining a mob that was rocking the vehicle, Comber took a bear skin
he'd been carrying, and threw it on the truck.

Someone else set the truck on fire. Another person tried to retrieve Comber's
bear skin from the flames; that person's clothes caught fire. Comber managed to
put out the flames on that person, and then tossed his bear skin back onto the
burning truck. He backed away and bowed towards the truck; this, he would later
tell police, was his way of "invoking the spirit of the bear ... releasing the
spirit of the bear, my lifelong companion for 25 years."

Justice Myers found Comber jointly liable for the truck's destruction, and
ordered him to help pay for ICBC's loss. Eight other defendants were also found
liable for damages. But in each case, the judge declined to award ICBC
additional, punitive damages.

The defendants "have all been the subject of adverse publicity in the press and
social media," Justice Myers wrote in his decision. "There comes a point where
'enough is enough.' " National Post bhutchinson@nationalpost.com !@COPYRIGHT=©
2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, PNG Files; The riot that followed the Vancouver Canucks'
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final on June 15, 2011, has
been costly. The expense of prosecuting the rioters had reached $4,976,765 by
January this year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Calgary Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             952 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Cost of vancouver riots continues to rise 5 years on; Stanley cup miscreants
still exacting a toll

BYLINE: Brian Hutchinson, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. N3

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


One of the world's most livable, least affordable, most beautiful and
despair-ridden cities - the paradoxical Vancouver - observed an anniversary the
other day.

As noted in local media, sombrely and with no affection, exactly five years had
passed since the city's NHL team, the Canucks, lost a seventh and deciding game
to the dreaded Boston Bruins in the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.

Five years it's been since thousands of drunken louts flew into a rage and
proceeded to tear up Vancouver's downtown core, vandalizing and looting shops,
setting fires to cars and trucks, beating up peaceful citizens, threatening
police.

Those five hours of mayhem were a stain on this city. They left an indelible
mark. Even to lifelong residents, Vancouver's poor, drug-infested Downtown
Eastside seems anarchic and strangely out of place in a city of tremendous
wealth, but it had nothing on riot night.

According to an official count, 26 arsons were committed during the 2011 riot.
Some 112 businesses were damaged, 122 vehicles were damaged or destroyed, 52
assaults on civilians and police were reported, and more than 250 medical
emergencies were recorded, posthockey game.

It was an embarrassing, depressing and costly night of insanity. The "total
estimated monetary loss resulting from the riot" was approximately $3.8 million,
according to a report released earlier this year by B.C.'s Ministry of Justice
and Attorney General. The figure doesn't include the expense of prosecuting the
riotous creeps; that tally had reached $4,976,765 by January this year.

Good value for 912 charges laid by the province against 300 suspects, resulting
in 284 guilty pleas, six criminal trials and some jail time, mostly for taking
part in a riot, and break and enter? Perhaps. Were the prosecutions handled
expeditiously? It seems not.

The wounds still smart, and here's some salt: Mary and Joe Taxpayer haven't even
seen the final riot bill yet, because there are more residual costs for dealing
with Stanley Cup miscreants. And they continue to mount.

On Friday, for example, B.C. Supreme Court Justice Myers Elliott finally
rendered his decision in a civil claim brought by the provincially owned
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), which insures automobiles
licensed in B.C. ICBC sued 82 individuals, claiming they were responsible for
riot-related damages to vehicles it insured. Almost 40 of the defendants settled
with ICBC, while default judgments were made against 35 others. The remaining 10
defendants - every one of whom had already been convicted criminally and
sentenced for their riot night misdeeds - elected to fight the civil lawsuit and
went to trial.

Now, the riot has been written about, discussed, analyzed, parsed to death over
the past five years, but Justice Myers' judgment is still worth a read, and not
just for its conclusions, including the rather startling remark that the last of
the insurance case defendants had received enough punishment for whatever
happened on that infamous night.

Justice Myers describes their lunacy in some detail. As defendant Sean Yates
would eventually tell police, he "just went crazy" during the riot, and,
according to Friday's judgment, "started throwing and breaking things." Yates
spat on an officer, and "challenged the constable to come get him while
brandishing a metal pipe," according to Justice Myers.

But contrary to claims made by ICBC, Yates did not directly participate in the
destruction of any vehicles. Justice Myers found him not liable.

Fellow rioter and defendant Andrew Comber, on the other hand, was found by
Justice Myers to have been actively involved in the destruction of a GMC pickup
truck. After joining a mob that was rocking the vehicle, Comber took a bear skin
he'd been carrying, and threw it on the truck.

Someone else set the truck on fire. Another person tried to retrieve Comber's
bear skin from the flames; that person's clothes caught fire. Comber managed to
put out the flames on that person, and then tossed his bear skin back onto the
burning truck. He backed away and bowed towards the truck; this, he would later
tell police, was his way of "invoking the spirit of the bear ... releasing the
spirit of the bear, my lifelong companion for 25 years."

Justice Myers found Comber jointly liable for the truck's destruction, and
ordered him to help pay for ICBC's loss. Eight other defendants were also found
liable for damages. But in each case, the judge declined to award ICBC
additional, punitive damages.

The defendants "have all been the subject of adverse publicity in the press and
social media," Justice Myers wrote in his decision. "There comes a point where
'enough is enough.' " National Post bhutchinson@nationalpost.com !@COPYRIGHT=©
2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, PNG Files; The riot that followed the Vancouver Canucks'
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final on June 15, 2011, has
been costly. The expense of prosecuting the rioters had reached $4,976,765 by
January this year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Edmonton Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                             953 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Cost of Vancouver riots continues to rise 5 years on; Stanley Cup miscreants
still exacting a toll

BYLINE: BRIAN HUTCHINSON, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. N3

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


One of the world's most livable, least affordable, most beautiful and
despair-ridden cities - the paradoxical Vancouver - observed an anniversary the
other day.

As noted in local media, sombrely and with no affection, exactly five years had
passed since the city's NHL team, the Canucks, lost a seventh and deciding game
to the dreaded Boston Bruins in the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.

Five years it's been since thousands of drunken louts flew into a rage and
proceeded to tear up Vancouver's downtown core, vandalizing and looting shops,
setting fires to cars and trucks, beating up peaceful citizens, threatening
police.

Those five hours of mayhem were a stain on this city. They left an indelible
mark. Even to lifelong residents, Vancouver's poor, drug-infested Downtown
Eastside seems anarchic and strangely out of place in a city of tremendous
wealth, but it had nothing on riot night.

According to an official count, 26 arsons were committed during the 2011 riot.
Some 112 businesses were damaged, 122 vehicles were damaged or destroyed, 52
assaults on civilians and police were reported, and more than 250 medical
emergencies were recorded, posthockey game.

It was an embarrassing, depressing and costly night of insanity. The "total
estimated monetary loss resulting from the riot" was approximately $3.8 million,
according to a report released earlier this year by B.C.'s Ministry of Justice
and Attorney General. The figure doesn't include the expense of prosecuting the
riotous creeps; that tally had reached $4,976,765 by January this year.

Good value for 912 charges laid by the province against 300 suspects, resulting
in 284 guilty pleas, six criminal trials and some jail time, mostly for taking
part in a riot, and break and enter? Perhaps. Were the prosecutions handled
expeditiously? It seems not.

The wounds still smart, and here's some salt: Mary and Joe Taxpayer haven't even
seen the final riot bill yet, because there are more residual costs for dealing
with Stanley Cup miscreants. And they continue to mount.

On Friday, for example, B.C. Supreme Court Justice Myers Elliott finally
rendered his decision in a civil claim brought by the provincially owned
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), which insures automobiles
licensed in B.C. ICBC sued 82 individuals, claiming they were responsible for
riot-related damages to vehicles it insured. Almost 40 of the defendants settled
with ICBC, while default judgments were made against 35 others. The remaining 10
defendants - every one of whom had already been convicted criminally and
sentenced for their riot night misdeeds - elected to fight the civil lawsuit and
went to trial.

Now, the riot has been written about, discussed, analyzed, parsed to death over
the past five years, but Justice Myers' judgment is still worth a read, and not
just for its conclusions, including the rather startling remark that the last of
the insurance case defendants had received enough punishment for whatever
happened on that infamous night.

Justice Myers describes their lunacy in some detail. As defendant Sean Yates
would eventually tell police, he "just went crazy" during the riot, and,
according to Friday's judgment, "started throwing and breaking things." Yates
spat on an officer, and "challenged the constable to come get him while
brandishing a metal pipe," according to Justice Myers.

But contrary to claims made by ICBC, Yates did not directly participate in the
destruction of any vehicles. Justice Myers found him not liable.

Fellow rioter and defendant Andrew Comber, on the other hand, was found by
Justice Myers to have been actively involved in the destruction of a GMC pickup
truck. After joining a mob that was rocking the vehicle, Comber took a bear skin
he'd been carrying, and threw it on the truck.

Someone else set the truck on fire. Another person tried to retrieve Comber's
bear skin from the flames; that person's clothes caught fire. Comber managed to
put out the flames on that person, and then tossed his bear skin back onto the
burning truck. He backed away and bowed towards the truck; this, he would later
tell police, was his way of "invoking the spirit of the bear ... releasing the
spirit of the bear, my lifelong companion for 25 years."

Justice Myers found Comber jointly liable for the truck's destruction, and
ordered him to help pay for ICBC's loss. Eight other defendants were also found
liable for damages. But in each case, the judge declined to award ICBC
additional, punitive damages.

The defendants "have all been the subject of adverse publicity in the press and
social media," Justice Myers wrote in his decision. "There comes a point where
'enough is enough.' " !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JASON PAYNE, PNG FILES; The riots that followed the Vancouver Canucks'
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final on June 15, 2011, has
been costly. The expense of prosecuting the rioters had reached $4,976,765 by
January this year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Montreal Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved


                             954 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Cost of Vancouver riots continues to rise 5 years on; Stanley Cup miscreants
still exacting a toll

BYLINE: Brian Hutchinson, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. N3

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


One of the world's most livable, least affordable, most beautiful and
despair-ridden cities - the paradoxical Vancouver - observed an anniversary the
other day.

As noted in local media, sombrely and with no affection, exactly five years had
passed since the city's NHL team, the Canucks, lost a seventh and deciding game
to the dreaded Boston Bruins in the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.

Five years it's been since thousands of drunken louts flew into a rage and
proceeded to tear up Vancouver's downtown core, vandalizing and looting shops,
setting fires to cars and trucks, beating up peaceful citizens, threatening
police.

Those five hours of mayhem were a stain on this city. They left an indelible
mark. Even to lifelong residents, Vancouver's poor, drug-infested Downtown
Eastside seems anarchic and strangely out of place in a city of tremendous
wealth, but it had nothing on riot night.

According to an official count, 26 arsons were committed during the 2011 riot.
Some 112 businesses were damaged, 122 vehicles were damaged or destroyed, 52
assaults on civilians and police were reported, and more than 250 medical
emergencies were recorded, posthockey game.

It was an embarrassing, depressing and costly night of insanity. The "total
estimated monetary loss resulting from the riot" was approximately $3.8 million,
according to a report released earlier this year by B.C.'s Ministry of Justice
and Attorney General. The figure doesn't include the expense of prosecuting the
riotous creeps; that tally had reached $4,976,765 by January this year.

Good value for 912 charges laid by the province against 300 suspects, resulting
in 284 guilty pleas, six criminal trials and some jail time, mostly for taking
part in a riot, and break and enter? Perhaps. Were the prosecutions handled
expeditiously? It seems not.

The wounds still smart, and here's some salt: Mary and Joe Taxpayer haven't even
seen the final riot bill yet, because there are more residual costs for dealing
with Stanley Cup miscreants. And they continue to mount.

On Friday, for example, B.C. Supreme Court Justice Myers Elliott finally
rendered his decision in a civil claim brought by the provincially owned
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), which insures automobiles
licensed in B.C. ICBC sued 82 individuals, claiming they were responsible for
riot-related damages to vehicles it insured. Almost 40 of the defendants settled
with ICBC, while default judgments were made against 35 others. The remaining 10
defendants - every one of whom had already been convicted criminally and
sentenced for their riot night misdeeds - elected to fight the civil lawsuit and
went to trial.

Now, the riot has been written about, discussed, analyzed, parsed to death over
the past five years, but Justice Myers' judgment is still worth a read, and not
just for its conclusions, including the rather startling remark that the last of
the insurance case defendants had received enough punishment for whatever
happened on that infamous night.

Justice Myers describes their lunacy in some detail. As defendant Sean Yates
would eventually tell police, he "just went crazy" during the riot, and,
according to Friday's judgment, "started throwing and breaking things." Yates
spat on an officer, and "challenged the constable to come get him while
brandishing a metal pipe," according to Justice Myers.

But contrary to claims made by ICBC, Yates did not directly participate in the
destruction of any vehicles. Justice Myers found him not liable.

Fellow rioter and defendant Andrew Comber, on the other hand, was found by
Justice Myers to have been actively involved in the destruction of a GMC pickup
truck. After joining a mob that was rocking the vehicle, Comber took a bear skin
he'd been carrying, and threw it on the truck.

Someone else set the truck on fire. Another person tried to retrieve Comber's
bear skin from the flames; that person's clothes caught fire. Comber managed to
put out the flames on that person, and then tossed his bear skin back onto the
burning truck. He backed away and bowed towards the truck; this, he would later
tell police, was his way of "invoking the spirit of the bear ... releasing the
spirit of the bear, my lifelong companion for 25 years."

Justice Myers found Comber jointly liable for the truck's destruction, and
ordered him to help pay for ICBC's loss. Eight other defendants were also found
liable for damages. But in each case, the judge declined to award ICBC
additional, punitive damages.

The defendants "have all been the subject of adverse publicity in the press and
social media," Justice Myers wrote in his decision. "There comes a point where
'enough is enough.' " National Post bhutchinson@nationalpost.com !@COPYRIGHT=©
2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, PNG Files; The riots that followed the Vancouver Canucks'
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final on June 15, 2011, has
been costly. The expense of prosecuting the rioters had reached $4,976,765 by
January this year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Ottawa Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                             955 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Cost of Vancouver riots continues to rise 5 years on; Stanley Cup miscreants
still exacting a toll

BYLINE: Brian Hutchinson, The Starphoenix

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. N3

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


One of the world's most livable, least affordable, most beautiful and
despair-ridden cities - the paradoxical Vancouver - observed an anniversary the
other day.

As noted in local media, sombrely and with no affection, exactly five years had
passed since the city's NHL team, the Canucks, lost a seventh and deciding game
to the dreaded Boston Bruins in the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.

Five years it's been since thousands of drunken louts flew into a rage and
proceeded to tear up Vancouver's downtown core, vandalizing and looting shops,
setting fires to cars and trucks, beating up peaceful citizens, threatening
police.

Those five hours of mayhem were a stain on this city. They left an indelible
mark. Even to lifelong residents, Vancouver's poor, drug-infested Downtown
Eastside seems anarchic and strangely out of place in a city of tremendous
wealth, but it had nothing on riot night.

According to an official count, 26 arsons were committed during the 2011 riot.
Some 112 businesses were damaged, 122 vehicles were damaged or destroyed, 52
assaults on civilians and police were reported, and more than 250 medical
emergencies were recorded, posthockey game.

It was an embarrassing, depressing and costly night of insanity. The "total
estimated monetary loss resulting from the riot" was approximately $3.8 million,
according to a report released earlier this year by B.C.'s Ministry of Justice
and Attorney General. The figure doesn't include the expense of prosecuting the
riotous creeps; that tally had reached $4,976,765 by January this year.

Good value for 912 charges laid by the province against 300 suspects, resulting
in 284 guilty pleas, six criminal trials and some jail time, mostly for taking
part in a riot, and break and enter? Perhaps. Were the prosecutions handled
expeditiously? It seems not.

The wounds still smart, and here's some salt: Mary and Joe Taxpayer haven't even
seen the final riot bill yet, because there are more residual costs for dealing
with Stanley Cup miscreants. And they continue to mount.

On Friday, for example, B.C. Supreme Court Justice Myers Elliott finally
rendered his decision in a civil claim brought by the provincially owned
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), which insures automobiles
licensed in B.C. ICBC sued 82 individuals, claiming they were responsible for
riot-related damages to vehicles it insured. Almost 40 of the defendants settled
with ICBC, while default judgments were made against 35 others. The remaining 10
defendants - every one of whom had already been convicted criminally and
sentenced for their riot night misdeeds - elected to fight the civil lawsuit and
went to trial.

Now, the riot has been written about, discussed, analyzed, parsed to death over
the past five years, but Justice Myers' judgment is still worth a read, and not
just for its conclusions, including the rather startling remark that the last of
the insurance case defendants had received enough punishment for whatever
happened on that infamous night.

Justice Myers describes their lunacy in some detail. As defendant Sean Yates
would eventually tell police, he "just went crazy" during the riot, and,
according to Friday's judgment, "started throwing and breaking things." Yates
spat on an officer, and "challenged the constable to come get him while
brandishing a metal pipe," according to Justice Myers.

But contrary to claims made by ICBC, Yates did not directly participate in the
destruction of any vehicles. Justice Myers found him not liable.

Fellow rioter and defendant Andrew Comber, on the other hand, was found by
Justice Myers to have been actively involved in the destruction of a GMC pickup
truck. After joining a mob that was rocking the vehicle, Comber took a bear skin
he'd been carrying, and threw it on the truck.

Someone else set the truck on fire. Another person tried to retrieve Comber's
bear skin from the flames; that person's clothes caught fire. Comber managed to
put out the flames on that person, and then tossed his bear skin back onto the
burning truck. He backed away and bowed towards the truck; this, he would later
tell police, was his way of "invoking the spirit of the bear ... releasing the
spirit of the bear, my lifelong companion for 25 years."

Justice Myers found Comber jointly liable for the truck's destruction, and
ordered him to help pay for ICBC's loss. Eight other defendants were also found
liable for damages. But in each case, the judge declined to award ICBC
additional, punitive damages.

The defendants "have all been the subject of adverse publicity in the press and
social media," Justice Myers wrote in his decision. "There comes a point where
'enough is enough.' " National Post bhutchinson@nationalpost.com !@COPYRIGHT=©
2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, PNG Files; The riots that followed the Vancouver Canucks'
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final on June 15, 2011, has
been costly. The expense of prosecuting the rioters had reached $4,976,765 by
January this year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Star Phoenix
                              All Rights Reserved


                             956 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               London Free Press

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Cost of Vancouver riots continues to rise 5 years on; Stanley Cup miscreants
still exacting a toll

BYLINE: Brian Hutchinson, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. N3

LENGTH: 784  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


One of t he world's most livable, least affordable, most beautiful and
despair-ridden cities - the paradoxical Vancouver - observed an anniversary the
other day.

As noted in local media, sombrely and with no affection, exactly five years had
passed since the city's NHL team, the Canucks, lost a seventh and deciding game
to the dreaded Boston Bruins in the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.

Five years it's been since thousands of drunken louts flew into a rage and
proceeded to tear up Vancouver's downtown core, vandalizing and looting shops,
setting fires to cars and trucks, beating up peaceful citizens, threatening
police.

Those five hours of mayhem were a stain on this city. They left an indelible
mark. Even to lifelong residents, Vancouver's poor, drug-infested Downtown
Eastside seems anarchic and strangely out of place in a city of tremendous
wealth, but it had nothing on riot night.

According to an official count, 26 arsons were committed during the 2011 riot.
Some 112 businesses were damaged, 122 vehicles were damaged or destroyed, 52
assaults on civilians and police were reported, and more than 250 medical
emergencies were recorded, posthockey game.

It was an embarrassing, depressing and costly night of insanity. The "total
estimated monetary loss resulting from the riot" was approximately $3.8 million,
according to a report released earlier this year by B.C.'s Ministry of Justice
and Attorney General. The figure doesn't include the expense of prosecuting the
riotous creeps; that tally had reached $4,976,765 by January this year.

Good value for 912 charges laid by the province against 300 suspects, resulting
in 284 guilty pleas, six criminal trials and some jail time, mostly for taking
part in a riot, and break and enter? Perhaps. Were the prosecutions handled
expeditiously? It seems not.

The wounds still smart, and here's some salt: Mary and Joe Taxpayer haven't even
seen the final riot bill yet, because there are more residual costs for dealing
with Stanley Cup miscreants. And they continue to mount.

On Friday, for example, B.C. Supreme Court Justice Myers Elliott finally
rendered his decision in a civil claim brought by the provincially owned
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), which insures automobiles
licensed in B.C. ICBC sued 82 individuals, claiming they were responsible for
riot-related damages to vehicles it insured. Almost 40 of the defendants settled
with ICBC, while default judgments were made against 35 others. The remaining 10
defendants - every one of whom had already been convicted criminally and
sentenced for their riot night misdeeds - elected to fight the civil lawsuit and
went to trial.

Now, the riot has been written about, discussed, analyzed, parsed to death over
the past five years, but Justice Myers' judgment is still worth a read, and not
just for its conclusions, including the rather startling remark that the last of
the insurance case defendants had received enough punishment for whatever
happened on that infamous night.

Justice Myers describes their lunacy in some detail. As defendant Sean Yates
would eventually tell police, he "just went crazy" during the riot, and,
according to Friday's judgment, "started throwing and breaking things." Yates
brandishing a metal pipe," according to Justice Myers.

But contrary to claims made by ICBC, Yates did not directly participate in the
destruction of any vehicles. Justice Myers found him not liable.

Fellow rioter and defendant Andrew Comber, on the other hand, was found by
Justice Myers to have been actively involved in the destruction of a GMC pickup
truck. After joining a mob that was rocking the vehicle, Comber took a bear skin
he'd been carrying, and threw it on the truck.

Someone else set the truck on fire. Another person tried to retrieve Comber's
bear skin from the flames; that person's clothes caught fire. Comber managed to
put out the flames on that person, and then tossed his bear skin back onto the
burning truck. He backed away and bowed towards the truck; this, he would later
tell police, was his way of "invoking the spirit of the bear ... releasing the
spirit of the bear, my lifelong companion for 25 years."

Justice Myers found Comber jointly liable for the truck's destruction, and
ordered him to help pay for ICBC's loss. Eight other defendants were also found
liable for damages. But in each case, the judge declined to award ICBC
additional, punitive damages.

The defendants "have all been the subject of adverse publicity in the press and
social media," Justice Myers wrote in his decision. "There comes a point where
'enough is enough.'" National Post bhutchinson @nationalpost. com !@COPYRIGHT=©
2016 Sun Media Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, PNG Files; The riot that followed the Vancouver Canucks'
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final on June 15, 2011, has
been costly. The expense of prosecuting the rioters had reached $4,976,765 by
January this year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 London Free Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                             957 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            October 22, 2013 Tuesday

UPA push to communal violence bill gathering dust since 2005

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 610 words


NEW DELHI: More than a month after communal riots in Muzaffarnagar claimed over
50 lives and less than six months before the Lok Sabha poll, the Union home
ministry has dusted the draft communal violence bill, hanging fire since 2005.

Union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde on Monday said he was working on
provisions of the Bill, some of which are being objected to by parties like the
BJP as well as state governments.

Stating that the MHA was moving ahead with the Prevention of Communal and
Targeted Violence Bill that aims to protect minorities against targeted attacks,
Shinde said he had "sought details of the bill from the concerned department".
"The work has begun on the bill," he told reporters.

The push for the bill also came from minority affairs minister K Rahman Khan,
who noted that the Muzaffarnagar riots had underlined inadequacies in existing
laws to deal with communal clashes. He pitched for tabling of the anti-riots
Bill in the ensuing winter session, but added that "the decision has to be taken
by the government."

When asked if the bill could come up in winter session, Shinde said he was not
sure.

The bill has been gathering dust despite being cleared by a parliamentary
standing committee in end-2006. Though the parliamentary panel was able to
resolve differences over a controversial provision that allowed the Centre to
send forces on its own to a communally disturbed area, it could not be
subsequently taken up by Parliament despite notices being given for its
consideration and passage in successive sessions.

Then came the intervention by Sonia Gandhi-headed National Advisory Council
(NAC), which decided to re-examine the bill in 2010 and came up with a revised
draft bill in 2011. The controversial provisions in this new draft ran into
opposition from the ministries of home as well as law, especially the one
providing for penalizing of government officials who failed to prevent or
control communal violence. There was also opposition to only "minorities" being
recognized as the group targeted during riots.

Another controversial provision that ran foul with many state governments
related to creation of a National Authority for Communal Harmony, Justice and
Reparation with sweeping powers to probe occurrence or likely occurrence of
communal riots and also to review effectiveness of steps taken by government
officials towards prevention of communal violence.

The NAC draft almost pushed the communal violence bill into cold storage.
However, with the Muzaffarnagar riots renewing demands for enactment of an anti-
riots bill, the Union home ministry has now revived efforts to streamline
divergence of opinion over its provisions.

The demand for enactment of the anti-riots bill is expected to dominate
proceedings at the convention against communalism scheduled for October 30.
Being organized by non-Congress and non-BJP parties, it will mount pressure on
the UPA to have a strong legal framework in place to deal with riots and
rehabilitate riot victims.

Congress appeared in favour of the bill. Spokesman Sandeep Dikshit said the bill
was "pending discussion" but underlined it was an important legislation that
would have a far-reaching effect.

After the Muzaffarnagar violence, CPM's full Polit Bureau meeting had said the
violence in western UP has come in the "background of the systematic efforts to
raise communal tensions and provoke violence by the RSS outfits."

CPM also blamed the Uttar Pradesh administration for not being vigilant. The
party said, "In this connection, the Polit Bureau wants the Prevention of
Communal Violence Bill to be taken up expeditiously and adopted."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             958 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                              July 27, 2015 Monday
                                Kolkata Edition

Activists question '92 riots cases status

BYLINE: Mateen.Hafeez@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES NATION

LENGTH: 352 words


A day before the Supreme Court takes a final call on the mercy petition of Yakub
Memon, campaigners -who have been following the city's worst sectarian riots
cases for more than 20 years -blasted the government, saying it should show
similar interest in punishing the 1992 riots accused.

Disturbances and violence in the aftermath of the demolition of Babri Masjid had
left close to 275 Hindus and 575 Muslims dead in the financial capital.

The Supreme Court had asked the Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra to act,
after which a special task force was set up to study the recommendations of the
Justice B N Srikrishna report on the riots.

Jyoti Punwani, who followed and wrote about the riots extensively , said that
"1,358 riot cases were closed and classified as 'A summary' (true but not
detected). The Srikrishna panel found that the police made no effort to detect
the offence, even when the accused had

been named by the complainants. Justice Srikrishna recommended the 1,358 closed
cases be probed again. The task force reopened only five cases... amounting to
not even 1 per cent of the cases closed! These too ended in acquittal, thanks to
a half-hearted

prosecution".

Activist Fareed Batatawala, an intervener in the Supreme Court in the riots
cases said:"We don't want our children to be la belled and live as children or
rioters. A spe cial investigation team was formed on my pet ition. However,
justice has been delayed While the police arrested former MP Madhu kar
Sarpotdar, other politicians were never taken in custody and the Mumbai Police
are responsible for it... "If Mumbai Police's guilty personnel had been
punished, then the Gujarat riots would not have occurred." He added: "You are
pre paring to hang Memon, what about the rio perpetrators?" Activist Shaikh
Sajid said the govern ment should take riots cases to their logica conclusion.
"When the Radhabai chawl in Jo geshwari was set on fire, 13 people were ki lled.
We fought for the accused. We protected the Hindu families and with the help of
other NGOs we rehabilitated them. The state has shown no interest in remedy of
such riots."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             959 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Abbotsford Times (British Columbia)

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Taking rioters to school; Charges laid against Mission man, 3 from Abby could be
next

BYLINE: Rochelle Baker, The Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 348  words


The investigation team hunting suspects from the Stanley Cup riot arrived in
Abbotsford as part of a daylong public blitz on Thursday.

Abbotsford Const. David Morton was at the University of the Fraser Valley with a
crew of auxiliary officers handing out the latest wanted posters as part of the
second "riot roundup" campaign.

Morton, a detective with the Integrated Riot Investigation Team, said previous
efforts to identify suspects involved in the riot last June were largely
confined to the Metro Vancouver area.

However, 82 per cent of the first 150 suspected rioters to be identified come
from outside of Vancouver.

"We're now trying to identify people who came into Vancouver from outlying
areas," Morton said.

Charges against a Mission man were announced last Monday and three other riot
suspects from Abbotsford have had charges recommended against them.

Bradley Peters, 20, formerly of Abbotsford, has been charged with three counts
of mischief and one count of participating in a riot.

RCMP officers and volunteers were out at public venues in Mission as well on
Thursday handing out posters.

The Vancouver Police Department describes the riot that followed the Canucks
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins on June 15, 2011, as the largest crime spree in
the city's history.

The newest poster to go out across the upper Fraser Valley features pictures of
100 rioters, including the IRIT's five "most wanted."

The reception by UFV students to the campaign was extremely positive, said
Morton, adding around 750 posters were handed out at the Abbotsford campus.

"They've been very receptive to what we're doing and people have even given us
some tips," he said.

Sixty-seven suspects have been charged with a total of 177 criminal offences as
of Thursday, and many of those charges were made due to help from the public.

The detective spends most of his time going through video footage to pinpoint
individuals who committed criminal offences during the riot.

? For more information, to view the latest riot suspects' pictures or to provide
a tip, visit riot2011.vpd.ca/.

RBaker@abbotsfordtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: -Rochelle Baker, Times; Abbotsford Police Const. David Morton shows UFV
student Tony Wang the latest wanted poster for suspects in the 2011 riot.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Abbotsford Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             960 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

THE LEFT WERE SO WRONG - THIS WAS NEVER ABOUT CUTS

LENGTH: 405 words


ANALYSIS

JAMES SLACK

THE streets were still ablaze when a string of senior Labour figures took to the
airwaves to blame Government 'cuts' for the riots.

The party's candidate for Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, explained the
initial outbreak of violence and looting by saying: 'Tottenham's had a 9 per
cent cut nearly in its Government grant.'

Harriet Harman, as the riots spread nationwide, then pointed to the trebling in
tuition fees, the axing of the Education Maintenance Allowance and the closure
of local job centres.

Chris Williamson, Labour MP for Derby North, also suggested the Government's
austerity drive was to blame. But, if Miss Harman and her colleagues were hoping
yesterday's report would validate their argument, they would have been sorely
disappointed.Ê

The most striking rebuttal of their claim came from panel member Heather
Rabbatts who explicitly said the riots were not 'political'.Ê

She said that, in the case of the initial outbreak of trouble in Tottenham, the
'catalyst' had been the police shooting of Mark Duggan.Ê

With reference to the way the riots then spread, she concluded: 'These were not
riots that were political, these were particularly characterised by
opportunistic looting.' The members of the panel have a long track record of
working with disadvantaged groups, including teenagers at risk of social
exclusion, refugees and the homeless. It was set up after Ed Miliband called for
an inquiry into the causes of the riots.

None of the panel's recommendations for preventing further disturbances make any
reference to spending cuts Ð which had barely begun at the time of the riots.

Where tuition fees are briefly discussed in the report, it's in the context of
some children, who live in deprived areas, saying they do not feel they will
have the opportunity to get a good job or go to university.Ê

However the panel says children in the same class as those who said they felt
angry about the likes of EMA cuts had instead expressed 'optimism and
self-sufficiency'.

The report points to concerns among young black and Asian men that they are
being unfairly targeted by police stop and search.ÊBut panel chairman Darra
Singh said the riots 'were very different' to the race riots of 1981 sparked by
so-called stop and search 'Sus laws'.

Of those offenders brought before the courts so far, 42 per cent were white, 46
per cent black and 7 per cent Asian.

Opportunistic: A masked youth during the riots

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             961 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            January 31, 2014 Friday

Congress rues Rahul resurrecting 1984 riots, giving Modi an edge

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 442 words


NEW DELHI: Congress is concerned that Rahul Gandhi has inserted anti-Sikh riots
into the political discourse, shrinking its elbow room to attack Narendra Modi
on the issue of anti-Muslim carnage.

Rising protests from Sikh groups and the figuring of 1984 riots in news
bulletins has put Congress in the firing line of the 1984 riots that was till
now confined to individuals like Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler. Even in 2009,
the drama over anti-Sikh riots was provoked by the limited issue of Congress
giving election tickets to Kumar and Tytler before retracting.

If the Sikh riots continue to dominate headlines, they could draw parity between
Congress and BJP among opinion-makers and a defensive "secular" party would be
hamstrung in raising the ante against Modi on the issue of riots.

The key worry is the 1984 issue may now figure in every public interaction Modi
makes and it would be difficult to duck the issue.

With each passing day that Congress is having to defend itself, there ruling
camp feels it is losing its aggressive edge against Modi. It may be an advantage
for the Hindutva strongman who is trying his best to soften his rough edges
dating back to anti-Muslim riots and appear a moderate.

This has implications for the post-election scenario given that BJP would be
needing allies who have "secular" roots. That NCP is already making conciliatory
noises in favour of the Gujarat chief minister is an eye-opener.

There is a sense of regret in Congress that Rahul could not tackle the question
on riots effectively. While conceding too much ground, without putting Modi on
the defensive on Gujarat riots, his ambivalent response prised open the 1984
issue for debate.

Instead, he could have simply referred to the apologies issued by Congress chief
Sonia Gandhi and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 10 years ago. When cornered, he
could have apologized in line with senior Congress leaders and settled the issue
for good. Many in the party blame the poor background briefing to Rahul for the
fiasco.

Now, there is hope that Rahul would make up for the lapse in the coming TV
interviews that are lined up. While leaders are happy that the reluctant leader
has finally decided to communicate with the public and interact with the press,
they would want him to appear engaged. This when future interactions may not be
easy to navigate now that he has bared the chinks in his armour.

Amid the post-interview disappointment, a big plus for insiders is that he
managed to keep his cool and did not walk out like Modi did with a famous TV
anchor. It would have been disastrous PR in the present negative atmosphere.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             962 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Naroda verdict model for other riot cases

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: Chennai


Chennai, Aug. 30 -- The special court verdict in the Naroda Patiya massacre case
in Gujarat in which a former BJP minister, Maya Kodnani, and 31 others were
convicted on Wednesday for murder, conspiracy, and provoking a riot, among other
charges, is a feather in the cap of the judiciary. It shows that the
apprehensions that courts in Gujarat would not deliver justice in cases relating
to the 2002 riots have been proved unfounded. The Special Investigation Team
that had been appointed by the Supreme Court also needs to be congratulated for
putting together solid evidence which led to the convictions. That a Bajrang Dal
leader, Babubhai Patel was also convicted in what was the worst massacre of the
riots, makes it difficult for the Sangh Parivar to wash its hands off the riots
which took place in the immediate aftermath of the Godhra train burning in which
scores of Hindus returning from Ayodhya were killed.

While the detractors of Narendra Modi will no doubt try to project the verdict
as an embarrassment to him, its impact on the impending Assembly elections in
Gujarat is a matter of speculation. Yet, there is no cause for the Congress to
gloat over the convictions when its own hands are soiled by the anti-Sikh riots
that claimed nearly 3,000 lives in the aftermath of Indira Gandhi's
assassination in 1984. The verdict, however, must be lauded as it is one of
those rare cases in which police investigations into communal riots have
successfully led to exposure and conviction politicians and religious leaders
occupying high offices.

The Gujarat investigation should indeed be a model for the anti-Sikh riot cases
of 1984, besides such cases in Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra where no
political or religious leader has been convicted for riots and for complicity in
the killing of innocent people. It is not as though such people would not have
been involved. Those who committed such heinous acts of murder, loot and rape
must be brought to book regardless of the party or religious group they belong
to. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             963 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                        March 19, 1999 Friday 2D EDITION

Colorado to move inmates after riot

BYLINE: By Kit Miniclier, Denver Post Staff Writer

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-04

LENGTH: 301 words


Colorado is moving 100 of its prisoners out of the private, for-profit prison at
Olney Springs to give the firm an opportunity to clean it up and get reorganized
after a March 5 riot, the director of Colorado's prison system said Thursday.

That riot may have had "a silver lining, because it allowed us to take a look at
some things and be a bit more circumspect," added John Suthers, executive
director of the Colorado Department of Corrections.

Noting that Gov. Bill Owens wants to let private prisons control up to 30
percent of the state's prisoners, from the current 20 percent, Suthers said all
annual contracts with private prisons will be updated and reviewed this spring
to tighten state control and assure protection for both the public and inmates.

Meanwhile, Wyoming hasn't decided whether it will keep its 100 prisoners at
Olney Springs and is "very concerned about what happened," said state prison
spokeswoman Melinda Razzale.   Either way, Wyoming will be bringing home a few
prisoners who were involved in the riot, Razzale said. "We would rather have
them go through discipline with us than have Colorado people do that," she
added.

Initially, Olney Springs officials said some of the 256 inmates from Washington
state sparked the riot after one inmate's request for a peanut butter and jelly
sandwich was repeatedly denied.

Private guards saturated two cell blocks, holding about 500 prisoners, with
choking riot-control gas as prisoners smashed television sets, windows and
wooden doors and flooded cell blocks. The riot was quelled by four highly
trained state prison riot squads.

Colorado had 400 inmates in the prison during the riot and has a contract with
the prison firm, Correctional Services Corp. of Sarasota, Fla., to eventually
house 500 state prisoners.


LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1999 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             964 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                                  Pune Edition

Blood spilt over blaring beats

BYLINE: Avijit Ghosh | TNN

SECTION: DEEP FOCUS

LENGTH: 827 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a volatile nation,even minor tiffs over an unsettled restaurant
bill or dumping of garbage can trigger major communal conflagrations


It happened in June last year.A young man washing his hands with water kept in a
tank outside a place of worship was stopped from doing so by a member of another
community.The altercation that followed spiralled into a communal clash claiming
four lives at Kosi Kalan in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district last year.India is
on the edge.Even seemingly trivial incidents are leading to communal riots
.Playing loud music during a religious procession,a petty quarrel in a roadside
eatery,or even dumping of garbage has led to incidents of violence -
looting,arson and killing - between two communities."When the socio-political
environment is surcharged,even a small incident can trigger a much larger
crisis," says political scientist Imtiaz Ahmed.What's trivial and what's not
depends on the social history of a place.In an article titled 'Hindu-Muslim
Tension: Cause and Cure' published in Young India in June 1924,Mahatma Gandhi
wrote that cow slaughter and music outside a mosque are two of the several
reasons behind communal tension.That both these issues raise temperatures even
today - in Jharkhand's Chatra district one person was killed after two
communities clashed over loud music played in a religious procession this
February - only emphasizes the fact that continuity and change are two sides of
the same paradox that is India.Sociologist Yogendra Singh says,"Few communal
riots are the consequence of a single event.They are rather the cumulative
impact of a disaffection process,often waiting for an event,trivial or
otherwise,to spark a conflagration." Places either with a history of communal
violence or in a state of nervous social tension over a recent development,real
or imaginary,are generally high-strung.Against such a backdrop,what could be
dismissed as a minor incident by some could have big repercussions."In
India,incidents of women being teased are routine and often go unpunished.But in
rural Muzaffarnagar last month,it sparked a riot that eventually claimed over 40
lives," says Ahmed.Recent cases of molestation and inter-community love affairs
had caused social tension in the area leading to the flare-up.Sociologist
Dipankar Gupta adds,"Such riots happen in areas or neighbourhoods where both
sides are equally poised." In India,communal riots were essentially an urban
phenomenon.The dangerous thing,as Ahmed put it,is that they have now spread to
rural areas.And here the rapid proliferation of modern technology has played a
part.Rural or urban,information travels fast in the age of smartphones and
social media.Last year,a fake MMS clip showing atrocities against Muslims in
Assam went viral in Lucknow and Allahabad and caused rioting.Cops say WhatsApp
was used to relay a fake video to foment trouble in the Muzaffarnagar riots
."Modern technology enables a mischief-maker to distort information and present
it in a believable way.Today many with 19th century social values are handling
state-ofthe-art 21st century equipment.The message that goes from their mobile
indicates their mindsets,as do their reactions to messages they receive on
them," says Singh.Communal riots are a dark and recurring feature of modern
India.But in the 1970s,says Ahmed,such riots were generally fought in the
streets and were localised affairs.After the 1980s,the character of riots
changed.They became more sophisticated."Rioters now had a certain target in mind
such as destruction of property.The 1980 Moradabad riots,which left at least 400
dead,is a classic case.It happened when the Muslims had attained a degree of
prosperity in the area," he says.Besides,in 1980s and after,politicization of
riots became more intense."The riots in Meerut,Moradabad,Delhi and Gujarat
testify to that.Over the years,riots have become an integral part of the
political process.They happen when there is something to be gained politically,"
says Ahmed.In his seminal work 'Communalism in Modern India' historian Bipan
Chandra argues that " communal riots are not the main form or content of
communalism".They are,he says,"in the main,its reflection,its active episodic
expression,its bitter and virulent manifestation and consequence,and one of the
main instruments and agencies for its spread".It's a danger every thinking
Indian should worry about.Additional reporting by Ashish Tripathi in
Lucknow,Alok K N Mishra in Ranchi & Prabin Kalita in Guwahati THEY DID START THE
FIRE Sept 2013 | Shamli,UP | One killed,vehicles burnt,shops damaged,homes
pillaged after a slanging match over garbage disposal between two members of
different communities April 2013 | Hazaribagh,Jharkhand | Paramilitary forces
are deployed after one community accuses another of tearing its religious flag
Jan 2013 | Dhule,Maharashtra | Communal clashes break out after a youth refuses
to pay a food bill and gets beaten up by the restaurant owner June 2012 |
Meerut,UP | Inter-community clashes over loud music at a religious function in
village Nagla Mal claims two lives

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             965 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Blood spilt over blaring beats

BYLINE: Avijit Ghosh | TNN

SECTION: DEEP FOCUS

LENGTH: 827 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a volatile nation,even minor tiffs over an unsettled restaurant
bill or dumping of garbage can trigger major communal conflagrations


It happened in June last year.A young man washing his hands with water kept in a
tank outside a place of worship was stopped from doing so by a member of another
community.The altercation that followed spiralled into a communal clash claiming
four lives at Kosi Kalan in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district last year.India is
on the edge.Even seemingly trivial incidents are leading to communal riots
.Playing loud music during a religious procession,a petty quarrel in a roadside
eatery,or even dumping of garbage has led to incidents of violence -
looting,arson and killing - between two communities."When the socio-political
environment is surcharged,even a small incident can trigger a much larger
crisis," says political scientist Imtiaz Ahmed.What's trivial and what's not
depends on the social history of a place.In an article titled 'Hindu-Muslim
Tension: Cause and Cure' published in Young India in June 1924,Mahatma Gandhi
wrote that cow slaughter and music outside a mosque are two of the several
reasons behind communal tension.That both these issues raise temperatures even
today - in Jharkhand's Chatra district one person was killed after two
communities clashed over loud music played in a religious procession this
February - only emphasizes the fact that continuity and change are two sides of
the same paradox that is India.Sociologist Yogendra Singh says,"Few communal
riots are the consequence of a single event.They are rather the cumulative
impact of a disaffection process,often waiting for an event,trivial or
otherwise,to spark a conflagration." Places either with a history of communal
violence or in a state of nervous social tension over a recent development,real
or imaginary,are generally high-strung.Against such a backdrop,what could be
dismissed as a minor incident by some could have big repercussions."In
India,incidents of women being teased are routine and often go unpunished.But in
rural Muzaffarnagar last month,it sparked a riot that eventually claimed over 40
lives," says Ahmed.Recent cases of molestation and inter-community love affairs
had caused social tension in the area leading to the flare-up.Sociologist
Dipankar Gupta adds,"Such riots happen in areas or neighbourhoods where both
sides are equally poised." In India,communal riots were essentially an urban
phenomenon.The dangerous thing,as Ahmed put it,is that they have now spread to
rural areas.And here the rapid proliferation of modern technology has played a
part.Rural or urban,information travels fast in the age of smartphones and
social media.Last year,a fake MMS clip showing atrocities against Muslims in
Assam went viral in Lucknow and Allahabad and caused rioting.Cops say WhatsApp
was used to relay a fake video to foment trouble in the Muzaffarnagar riots
."Modern technology enables a mischief-maker to distort information and present
it in a believable way.Today many with 19th century social values are handling
state-ofthe-art 21st century equipment.The message that goes from their mobile
indicates their mindsets,as do their reactions to messages they receive on
them," says Singh.Communal riots are a dark and recurring feature of modern
India.But in the 1970s,says Ahmed,such riots were generally fought in the
streets and were localised affairs.After the 1980s,the character of riots
changed.They became more sophisticated."Rioters now had a certain target in mind
such as destruction of property.The 1980 Moradabad riots,which left at least 400
dead,is a classic case.It happened when the Muslims had attained a degree of
prosperity in the area," he says.Besides,in 1980s and after,politicization of
riots became more intense."The riots in Meerut,Moradabad,Delhi and Gujarat
testify to that.Over the years,riots have become an integral part of the
political process.They happen when there is something to be gained politically,"
says Ahmed.In his seminal work 'Communalism in Modern India' historian Bipan
Chandra argues that " communal riots are not the main form or content of
communalism".They are,he says,"in the main,its reflection,its active episodic
expression,its bitter and virulent manifestation and consequence,and one of the
main instruments and agencies for its spread".It's a danger every thinking
Indian should worry about.Additional reporting by Ashish Tripathi in
Lucknow,Alok K N Mishra in Ranchi & Prabin Kalita in Guwahati THEY DID START THE
FIRE Sept 2013 | Shamli,UP | One killed,vehicles burnt,shops damaged,homes
pillaged after a slanging match over garbage disposal between two members of
different communities April 2013 | Hazaribagh,Jharkhand | Paramilitary forces
are deployed after one community accuses another of tearing its religious flag
Jan 2013 | Dhule,Maharashtra | Communal clashes break out after a youth refuses
to pay a food bill and gets beaten up by the restaurant owner June 2012 |
Meerut,UP | Inter-community clashes over loud music at a religious function in
village Nagla Mal claims two lives

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             966 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     June 27, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Trouble in Quebec City: Focus should be on why kids riot, not what tourists
think

BYLINE: DON MACPHERSON; THE GAZETTE

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED; QUEBEC AFFAIRS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 746 words


What will the tourists think? That was a common reaction in Quebec City to
Sunday night's riot there.

That concern is understandable. Tourism is one of the city's most important
industries. And the riot happened at the beginning of summer, in a part of the
city frequented by visitors; one of the city's major hotels suffered damage.

Quebec City is constantly concerned with putting itself on the map, and keeping
itself there. But television images of the historic walled capital serving as a
backdrop for youths hurling bottles at police is not the kind of publicity it
needs. And that's even though the area shown is generally safe, even at night.

Another question being asked is: why did it happen?

The incident was immediately and inevitably dubbed the Saint-Jean-Baptiste or
Fete Nationale riot because it broke out shortly after, and near the site of, an
outdoor concert on the eve of the holiday.

Some of the rioters may have attended the concert, which was held on the Plains
of Abraham just outside the walled city.

But Premier Bouchard was probably right when he said the riot was not an
expression of nationalist sentiment. For one thing, one of the targets of the
rioters was the National Assembly.

The vandalism at the Assembly left Bouchard "very dismayed. The legislature
represents the site of democracy and the people didn't know what they were
doing. To break a window at the legislature is symbolic."

Bouchard may have been half right. It is symbolic to break a window in the
Assembly building, or to topple one of the statues adorning its facade, or to
break into the legislature library and try to set it on fire.

But that may be evidence that the people who did it knew exactly what they were
doing. For the Assembly is a symbol of more than Quebec nationalism. It also
represents society, order and authority.

Perhaps it's also symbolic, and also not a coincidence, that the riot started at
the Carre d'Youville. The square is just down the hill from the Assembly; on the
opposite side of the legislature buildings from the Plains of Abraham, where the
Saint-Jean-Baptiste concert took place.

It's an open-air gathering place for the members of Quebec City's different
youth tribes - skateboarders, punks and so on. It's also the scene of another
recent clash between young people and police, in early May. The police were
criticized for heavy-handedness in breaking up that gathering, and some young
people may have sought a return match on Sunday - using the Saint-Jean-Baptiste
concert as a pretext.

The Quebec City incidents seem to be part of a series of clashes between young
people and police in Quebec this spring. Two weeks after the first Quebec City
confrontation, there was the "squeegee riot" on Montreal's Main, St. Laurent
Blvd., which followed a police crackdown on punks who violate a city bylaw by
washing the windshields of cars stopped at street corners to earn money.

And the night after Sunday's riot in Quebec City, there was a copycat incident
after a Saint-Jean-Baptiste night celebration in Trois-Rivieres (which was
broken up with the help of Surete du Quebec riot police who happened to be
passing by, on their way back to Montreal after assisting Quebec City police).

The Quebec City police initially blamed Sunday's incident on extreme right-wing
agitators, members of a group they refused to identify.

On the contrary, says the Montreal-based World Anti-Fascist League, which
monitors such groups, it was actually anarchists. And it has evidence to back it
up, in the form of anarchist literature distributed before the riot.

But the police seem to have been unprepared to control and disperse crowds on
Sunday night, and then slow to respond when the rioting broke out.

That seems surprising, after the May clash and trouble connected with nighttime
Saint-Jean-Baptiste celebrations on the Plains in recent years. Maybe Quebec
City's small-town police force isn't trained or equipped to handle big-city
problems such as riots.

But there's a much bigger problem here than efficiently breaking up riots, one
that won't be solved by looking for a skinhead behind every lamppost or running
the young people out of all the Carres d'Youville to somewhere the tourists
aren't likely to see them. It's that young people see a reason to riot in the
first place, or rather see no reason not to.

Maybe instead of the tourists, we should worry more about what our own kids
think.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CP / Quebec City police stand on St. Jean St., facing a crowd of
about 2,000 revellers after Fete Nationale celebrations.

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             967 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

Riot victims hail panel report, say netas behind clashes

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: MEERUT

LENGTH: 460 words


MEERUT: While the BJP has slammed the Vishnu Sahai Commission, which has
reportedly blamed the Muzaffarnagar communal riots of 2013 on politicians and
the local administration, riot victims have hailed the reported findings of the
commission and said the panel was right in indicting politicians.

Saleem Shahpur was headed to his home in Kakra village on September 7, 2013 when
he saw a rally with thousands of armed people. "It was a terrifying sight. A
procession of thousands of people was headed from Muzaffarnagar to Budhana via
Mansoorpur Road. Most of them were armed with countrymade weapons, but many had
automatic weapons. A former pradhan of my village was also present in the rally,
along with local politicians. I decided to hurry home. All I could think of was
the safety of my wife and two sons," he said.

While the findings of the report have not been made public, Shahpur said, "I
read that the report blamed the riots on politicians. I agree with it. There was
a clear political character to that procession, after which there was an
incident of stoning of a mosque where a young boy died. When I reached home, the
night was tense. Nobody left their house and it was eerily quiet. On the morning
of September 8, we decided to leave the village for good. Our fellow villagers
were spared the carnage that other villages like Phugana had to witness. They
destroyed our houses after we had left but I am glad that my family is safe."
Around 5,000 people had been rendered homeless after the communal riots in
August and September 2013.

Shahpur said the report was also right in concluding that the local
administration did not do enough to control the riots. "If the police had
dispersed the crowd during the rally, the carnage could have been avoided. The
district administration is also to blame."

Another riot victim, on condition of anonymity, said, "There was a panchayat
meeting near Kawal village, which was the flashpoint of the riots. This was at
the beginning, when the clashes were in the initial stages. I saw at least three
major BJP leaders, including Sardhana MLA Sangeet Som, at the panchayat. They
were delivering inflammatory speeches. Shortly after that meeting, mobs used to
do the rounds of our villages and shout terrifying slogans about wiping out our
entire community. The report is right in claiming politicians were behind the
riots."

Shahpur added that one of the main reasons why the riots spread through five
districts was inflammatory videos being circulated through WhatsApp. People from
the other community, who we had lived peacefully with, used be huddled around
mobile phones and would grow quiet when we approached. Those messages were being
circulated at the behest of politicians."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             968 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                           December 21, 2013 Saturday

Five questions on the riot;
Public seeks answers, lessons to be learnt from incident

BYLINE: Toh Yong Chuan Senior Correspondent

SECTION: INSIGHT

LENGTH: 989 words


THE flames in Little India of two weeks ago have been put out but questions
continue to simmer.

Dec 8 will be remembered as the day Singapore saw its most violent outbreak of
street violence in 44 years.

The police acted decisively and swiftly. They called up 4,000 people for
interviews within a week.

Among them, 28 rioters were charged in court and another 53 were deported and
banned from returning. Some 200 passive onlookers were told that they can remain
here, but will be sent packing if they break the law.

An independent committee has started probing the carnage. The four-man panel
headed by a former Supreme Court judge is expected to take six months to
complete its work.

The public will be looking to the panel for answers to at least five questions.

What happened exactly'

DEPUTY Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean described the riot as a "a very serious
incident... arising from violent actions of an unruly mob reacting to a fatal
traffic accident".

The accident where a private bus ran over and killed a drunk Indian worker,
deteriorated rapidly into an orgy of violence.

Mr Annai Velu, who runs a provision shop at Race Course Road some 50m from
ground zero, told me that he had never seen such violence before.

"There was so much rage. My car was damaged but thankfully my shop was all
right," said the 51-year-old Singaporean.

While the broad story is clear, some crucial details are missing: How did the
violence soar? How quickly did the mob form'

The committee's report will be a definitive, and hopefully blow- by-blow,
account of the riot, to the extent that it is possible to document such an
outburst.

Why did it happen'

BESIDES how the mayhem unfolded, another burning question is why it happened.
The committee will not find any simple answer.

So far, the two prime suspects are alcohol and the fatal traffic accident. But
were these the only two factors at play'

Foreign worker activists have jumped at grievances as a cause, while Lee Kuan
Yew School of Public Policy associate dean Donald Low wrote online that "we
should be open to the possibility that there were underlying grievances and
social tensions which contributed to this riot".

Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has rejected speculation that pent-up tensions
might have been a cause, saying: "We have not seen any evidence of that."

The committee will have to decide whether to believe those who may claim that
they rioted because they were unhappy with their bosses or some aspect of the
Singapore system.

Indeed, it will be interviewing some of these workers to get to the bottom of
what happened.

How police handled the riot

BY MOST accounts, the police handled the riot well. Although there was
substantial damage to public and private properties, no innocent bystander was
seriously hurt.

Some brave policemen bore the brunt of injuries, protecting others such as
ambulance officers.

Mr K. Kesavapany, president of the Singapore Indian Association, praised the
police for their restraint: "The police chose to bear the fury of a mindless
mob."

Still, the riot police's response time is worth a closer look. The first troop
of riot policemen from the Special Operations Command reached ground zero 45
minutes after they were activated. They took another 14 minutes to form up and
break up the mob.

The police have already explained that they could not get into ground zero
earlier as the roads were congested.

Soccer fans will remember seeing riot police's distinctive "ang chia", the
Hokkien phrase for red vehicles, near the Jalan Besar Stadium or the
now-torn-down National Stadium for football matches, especially when Singapore
played Malaysia.

National servicemen will know this as "forward deployment", which means
stationing response teams near hot spots where they may be needed.

This is something worth considering so that response time is shortened for
future incidents.

Indeed, the police told The Straits Times that its crack riot troop already
"conducts regular patrols in Little India as part of police's continual efforts
to prevent and deter crime".

What about previous measures'

THIS newspaper reported on Dec8 last year, prophetically one year before the
riot, that liquor stores were sprouting up quickly there. The police, which
grant liquor licences, were reported to have said that they consider the law and
order situation there in granting such licences.

To be sure, two weeks before the riot, the Ministry of Home Affairs was already
considering a ban on the consumption of alcohol in common areas.

The problems at Little India cannot be solved by the police alone. In fact, the
"whole of government" approach to solving problems was applied to Little India.
In 2010, an inter-agency task force led by the Urban Redevelopment Authority
implemented a $3.5 million project to widen pavements and erect safety barriers.

As the committee explores measures to prevent another riot, it can look into the
successes and shortcomings of what the authorities have done.

What's next'

THE alcohol and bus service restrictions are, at best, temporary measures. With
a population of five million - including more than a million foreigners - on
this small island, the onus is on the authorities to be prepared for flare-ups
that could erupt in future due to crowded conditions and the reality of
individuals with different cultural codes and norms of behaviour living, playing
and rubbing up against one another regularly.

Foreign workers doing low- paid jobs that locals shun will continue to be needed
for the economy to run, even as the Government slows their inflow.

As we enter this post-riot phase, the public waits eagerly for the committee's
report. It also wants to be assured that those in charge of keeping the peace
and ensuring safety have the situation in hand, and that they will learn useful
lessons from this riot - to help them better anticipate, manage and minimise the
fallout of any future incidents.

tohyc@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             969 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Salazar urges rebuke for Limbaugh riot talk

BYLINE: Howard Pankratz The Denver Post

SECTION: DENVER & THE WEST; Pg. B-03

LENGTH: 284 words


U.S. Sen. Ken Salazar asked Friday that the owner of KOA radio "reprimand" Rush
Limbaugh for what Salazar calls Limbaugh's "clear exhortation" for riots during
August's Democratic National Convention in Denver.

Limbaugh said earlier this week that he is not calling for a riot in Denver but
only "dreams" of it, to the tune of "White Christmas."

"Now, I'm not inspiring or inciting riots. I'm dreaming. I'm dreaming of riots
in Denver," he said, mimicking the holiday tune.

But Salazar, in a letter sent Friday to Clear Channel Radio, owner of KOA,
characterized Limbaugh's comments as "incendiary."

"As I read Mr. Limbaugh's comments about riots at the Democratic National
Convention in Denver, they appear to me to be a clear exhortation that those
riots are exactly what he wants to happen," said Salazar. "For that kind of
incendiary comment, I ask Clear Channel to reprimand Mr. Limbaugh."

Kris Olinger, director of AM programming for Clear Channel Denver, said Limbaugh
is syndicated by Premiere Radio Network, the syndication arm of Clear Channel.
"We passed the letter along to Premiere," said Olinger.

Olinger said she was not surprised to receive a letter from a U.S. senator over
Limbaugh's comments. "We certainly expected strong reaction from the
leadership," Olinger said.

She added that she didn't believe Salazar has heard or read the full transcript
of Limbaugh's comments. She said the conservative talk-show host talked about it
again Friday on his show.

Limbaugh reiterated that he is not calling for riots, she said. Rather, he said
that if the extreme left of the Democratic Party riots in Denver during the
convention, it would be bad for the Democrats and good for Republicans, Olinger
said.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             970 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             March 20, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Riot squad gets Bulldogs season ticket

BYLINE: Justin Norrie Police Reporter

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 497 words


THE ranks of NSW riot police will be doubled to 100 and dozens of riot officers
could be deployed at Canterbury Bulldogs games to target brawling fans, under a
plan being canvassed by the NSW Police Commissioner.

Ken Moroney has told the Herald that 750 police graduates, to be introduced to
front lines next year, will also allow him to boost forensic police numbers from
650 to 820 by next year.

"Apart from the riot squad, the area that is expanding exponentially in police
work and has more demand than any other is forensics," Mr Moroney said. "I'd
like to keep increasing it by 5 to 10 per cent each year."

Mr Moroney revealed more plans to boost numbers at the state's crime command,
which runs specialist units such as the fraud squad, from 800 to 1000 in three
years to stem a rise in white-collar and cyber crime.

But he said the extra 750 police would be partly accounted for by the "200-odd
officers" - or 1.4 per cent of the state's 14,650-strong police force - on
long-term sick leave.

The most pressing concern was the expansion of the riot squad and the
possibility of using it at Bulldogs games after violence on Friday night, he
said.

"I want to use that 750 increase to add at least another 50 officers to the riot
squad - that's a minimum - and hopefully more," Mr Moroney said. "Myself and
[the Police Minister] Carl Scully will meet with the Bulldogs and the NRL on
Wednesday and we'll talk about what the club can do ... and about the option of
riot police who have special techniques for that sort of violent crowd
behaviour."

Witnesses described a ferocious attack by up to eight young men wearing Bulldogs
jerseys on three older Wests Tigers fans outside Telstra Stadium on Friday night
after a game. Police made only one arrest during the game, but spectators
recalled seeing two brawls in the stands, one of which they said involved up to
50 people.

Yesterday police issued court notices to four people on charges of affray after
reviewing television footage of one brawl.

Mr Moroney said the parties to Wednesday's crisis meeting would also consider
such measures as segregating Bulldogs fans and banning for life any found guilty
of violence.

He was supported by the Premier, Morris Iemma, who described the behaviour of
some Bulldogs fans as "shameful".

Violence has marred many Bulldogs games in recent years. In 2004 the club was
given a suspended punishment of four points after a brawl between its fans and
Roosters supporters.

In a statement issued yesterday the Bulldogs chief executive, Malcolm Noad, said
it would be unfair to characterise the club by the actions of "a small bunch of
idiots" but warned his fans that "we face the very real possibility of a loss of
points and a heavy fine if further crowd problems occur".

But the Opposition's spokesman for police, Mike Gallacher, said the Government's
announcement was a stunt: "This isn't 750 new police; it's merely an additional
150 after factoring in the 600 officers Labor slashed and did not replace."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             971 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 20, 2016 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Cost of Vancouver riots continues to rise 5 years on; Stanley Cup miscreants
still exacting a toll

BYLINE: Brian Hutchinson, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. N3

LENGTH: 797 words


One of the world's most livable, least affordable, most beautiful and
despair-ridden cities - the paradoxical Vancouver - observed an anniversary the
other day.

As noted in local media, sombrely and with no affection, exactly five years had
passed since the city's NHL team, the Canucks, lost a seventh and deciding game
to the dreaded Boston Bruins in the 2011 Stanley Cup finals.

Five years it's been since thousands of drunken louts flew into a rage and
proceeded to tear up Vancouver's downtown core, vandalizing and looting shops,
setting fires to cars and trucks, beating up peaceful citizens, threatening
police.

Those five hours of mayhem were a stain on this city. They left an indelible
mark. Even to lifelong residents, Vancouver's poor, drug-infested Downtown
Eastside seems anarchic and strangely out of place in a city of tremendous
wealth, but it had nothing on riot night.

According to an official count, 26 arsons were committed during the June 15,
2011, riot.

Some 112 businesses were damaged, 122 vehicles were damaged or destroyed, 52
assaults on civilians and police were reported, and more than 250 medical
emergencies were recorded, posthockey game.

It was an embarrassing, depressing and costly night of insanity. The "total
estimated monetary loss resulting from the riot" was approximately $3.8 million,
according to a report released earlier this year by B.C.'s Ministry of Justice
and Attorney General. The figure doesn't include the expense of prosecuting the
riotous creeps; that tally had reached $4,976,765 by January this year.

Good value for 912 charges laid by the province against 300 suspects, resulting
in 284 guilty pleas, six criminal trials and some jail time, mostly for taking
part in a riot, and break and enter? Perhaps. Were the prosecutions handled
expeditiously? It seems not.

The wounds still smart, and here's some salt: Mary and Joe Taxpayer haven't even
seen the final riot bill yet, because there are more residual costs for dealing
with Stanley Cup miscreants. And they continue to mount.

On Friday, for example, B.C. Supreme Court Justice Myers Elliott finally
rendered his decision in a civil claim brought by the provincially owned
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia (ICBC), which insures automobiles
licensed in B.C. ICBC sued 82 individuals, claiming they were responsible for
riot-related damages to vehicles it insured. Almost 40 of the defendants settled
with ICBC, while default judgments were made against 35 others. The remaining 10
defendants - every one of whom had already been convicted criminally and
sentenced for their riot night misdeeds - elected to fight the civil lawsuit and
went to trial.

Now, the riot has been written about, discussed, analyzed, parsed to death over
the past five years, but Justice Myers' judgment is still worth a read, and not
just for its conclusions, including the rather startling remark that the last of
the insurance case defendants had received enough punishment for whatever
happened on that infamous night.

Justice Myers describes their lunacy in some detail. As defendant Sean Yates
would eventually tell police, he "just went crazy" during the riot, and,
according to Friday's judgment, "started throwing and breaking things." Yates
spat on an officer, and "challenged the constable to come get him while
brandishing a metal pipe," according to Justice Myers.

But contrary to claims made by ICBC, Yates did not directly participate in the
destruction of any vehicles. Justice Myers found him not liable.

Fellow rioter and defendant Andrew Comber, on the other hand, was found by
Justice Myers to have been actively involved in the destruction of a GMC pickup
truck. After joining a mob that was rocking the vehicle, Comber took a bear skin
he'd been carrying, and threw it on the truck.

Someone else set the truck on fire. Another person tried to retrieve Comber's
bear skin from the flames; that person's clothes caught fire. Comber managed to
put out the flames on that person, and then tossed his bear skin back onto the
burning truck. He backed away and bowed towards the truck; this, he would later
tell police, was his way of "invoking the spirit of the bear ... releasing the
spirit of the bear, my lifelong companion for 25 years."

Justice Myers found Comber jointly liable for the truck's destruction, and
ordered him to help pay for ICBC's loss. Eight other defendants were also found
liable for damages. But in each case, the judge declined to award ICBC
additional, punitive damages.

The defendants "have all been the subject of adverse publicity in the press and
social media," Justice Myers wrote in his decision. "There comes a point where
'enough is enough.' " National Post bhutchinson@nationalpost.com !@COPYRIGHT=©
2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jason Payne, PNG Files; The riot that followed the Vancouver Canucks'
Game 7 loss to the Boston Bruins in the Stanley Cup final on June 15, 2011, has
been costly. The expense of prosecuting the rioters had reached $4,976,765 by
January this year.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Vancouver Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             972 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                           Business Times (Singapore)

Reinsurers urged to settle Indon riot claims

                        August 29, 1998, Weekend Edition

Soh Tiang Keng


Move will avert long delays over likely legal disputes

TO ensure speedy settlement and avert long delays over possible court disputes,
the Singapore Reinsurers' Association (SRA) has called upon its members to pay
out claims arising from the May riots in Jakarta.

These claims for property damage caused by the riots are to be made on the basis
of "without prejudice" and "without precedent to future liability".

In legal circles, "without prejudice" means a settlement without admission of
liability and that such a record of settlement cannot be produced as evidence in
court without the consent of both parties.

And "without precedent to future liability" means such payments of claim cannot
be used as a precedent for future claim settlements.

SRA is an advisory body representing 41 local and foreign reinsurance firms
operating here.

BT understands that the SRA has urged its members to pay the riot claims in the
wake of recent press reports over alleged differences of opinion between the SRA
and the Dewan Asuransi Indonesia (DAI) -the Indonesian Insurance Council -on the
definition of the Jakarta riots under which insurers have to make claims
payments.

According to insurance circles, reinsurers and insurers generally have to pay
for damages caused by normal riots which are small scale in nature.

But in case of larger riots caused by popular uprising or politically-motivated
disturbances, the issue of payment by insurers becomes blurred and contentious.

According to earlier agency reports, Singapore-based reinsurers may have to pay
out about US$ 250 million (S$ 444.9 million) in damage claims for the Jakarta
riots.

In a statement last night, SRA stressed that the issues involving the riots are
"extremely complex and vary from policy to policy and according to the
circumstances of each claim".

SRA maintained there were sufficient grounds for the riot claims to be disputed.
But it explained: "Given the different circumstances of each claim and insurance
policy, liability or otherwise could only be finally determined in a court of
law.

"However, this would result in long delays and expense which would put both
Indonesian companies in Indonesia and claimants under severe financial strain."

Therefore, SRA, in order to reach a speedy and equitable settlement of claims,
has advised its members to pay the claims.

It added that SRA and DAI have launched a joint initiative to redefine terms and
conditions of the policies sold in the Indonesian market "to avoid ambiguity in
policy coverage in the future." Last week, DAI sent a team here to hold talks
with SRA on this joint initiative.

Its members, SRA said, are free to follow its recommendations to pay claims for
the riots or to pursue other solutions as they deem fit.

SRA stressed it has maintained a high level of cooperation with DAI throughout
its discussions. Any disagreement between the two bodies, it explained, has been
restricted to technical issues which do not affect payment to policyholders over
the Jakarta riots.


SECTION: Singapore At Home & Abroad; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: May riots: local reinsurers may have to pay out some US$ 250 million in
damage claims

                   Copyright 1998 Times Business Publications


                             973 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

Rajnath promises justice for 1984 riot victims

LENGTH: 295  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Dec. 26 -- Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a "genocide",
Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday several persons who had a
"role" in the carnage are yet to be punished.


 "In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment," he said after distributing cheques of enhanced
compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.
 "I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that the government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," he said.
 Rajnath distributed cheques of [#x20b9]5 lakh each to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.
 According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459
people will soon be given after verification.
 Rajnath also said he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to look
into the grievances of 1984 riot victims.
 He also asked the Chief Ministers of all States to take steps for immediate
disbursement of enhanced compensation to the kin of 1984 riot victims.
 Of the total 3,325 victims of anti-Sikh riots, 2,733 belonged to Delhi. Others
belonged to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, among others.
 The AAP said the compensation cheques are like "giving lollipop" before the
election.
 Party's Delhi convenor Ashutosh said instead of giving the cheques to just 17
families, Rajnath should have come out with a plan of disbursing the
compensation money to remaining victims. "Now that Delhi elections are round the
corner, the BJP has decided to hand over the compensation package to just 17
families." he pointed out.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             974 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                 Business Line

                            December 26, 2014 Friday

Rajnath promises justice for 1984 riot victims

LENGTH: 295  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Dec. 26 -- Describing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 as a "genocide",
Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday several persons who had a
"role" in the carnage are yet to be punished.


 "In these incidents (anti-Sikh riots), there are several persons who are yet to
be punished. I have faith in our judicial system and these persons will
definitely get punishment," he said after distributing cheques of enhanced
compensation to the riot victims in Tilak Vihar area of west Delhi.
 "I know that until these persons are punished, victims will not get relief. I
want to assure that the government is with you and will be with you in even bad
days," he said.
 Rajnath distributed cheques of [#x20b9]5 lakh each to 17 kin of the riot
victims at a function here.
 According to a senior government official, enhanced compensation to 2,459
people will soon be given after verification.
 Rajnath also said he has constituted a committee under a retired judge to look
into the grievances of 1984 riot victims.
 He also asked the Chief Ministers of all States to take steps for immediate
disbursement of enhanced compensation to the kin of 1984 riot victims.
 Of the total 3,325 victims of anti-Sikh riots, 2,733 belonged to Delhi. Others
belonged to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, among others.
 The AAP said the compensation cheques are like "giving lollipop" before the
election.
 Party's Delhi convenor Ashutosh said instead of giving the cheques to just 17
families, Rajnath should have come out with a plan of disbursing the
compensation money to remaining victims. "Now that Delhi elections are round the
corner, the BJP has decided to hand over the compensation package to just 17
families." he pointed out.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 Tangerine Digital Entertainment Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             975 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

'Criminals, anarchists' to blame for riot: chief

BYLINE: James Keller, Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 648  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


The chaos that swept downtown Vancouver after the Canucks' Stanley Cup loss was
the work of "criminals and anarchists" who came prepared for trouble, the city's
police chief said Thursday, as he faced questions about why the post-game riot
spiralled out of control so quickly and lasted for so long.

The mayhem caused millions of dollars in damage and looting to downtown
businesses, at least 150 injuries, including nine police officers, and left a
black eye on a city that became an international star when it hosted the Winter
Olympics last year.

Chief Jim Chu insisted his police force planned for the worst-case scenario, and
when that scenario became a reality, officers in riot gear and on horseback
responded. He credited the force for bringing the riot under control in three
hours.

But faced with a crowd of tens of thousands packed into the downtown core, Chu
said hundreds of officers tasked with controlling the crowds were quickly
overwhelmed and unable to wade into the fray.

"Those criminals and anarchists hide behind the large numbers of people who
wanted to watch the game," Chu told reporters in Vancouver.

"When there's a large number of criminals and anarchists that have a common
purpose and intend to break the law, it's very difficult to stop that."

Nearly 100 people were arrested Wednesday night, said Chu, and police were
inviting the public to submit photos and videos of the mayhem to help them round
up more.

The riot appeared to begin in a city-organized celebration site overflowing with
fans watching the game on giant outdoor TV screens, as they had throughout the
Stanley Cup series. In the dying minutes of the third period, with the Canucks
down 4-0, some in the crowd tipped over a car and set it on fire.

The violence quickly spread. Over the next several hours, a total of 15 cars,
including two police cruisers, were set ablaze.

Windows were smashed along busy Granville Street and looters streamed into large
department stores to emerge with high-end fashion accessories, clothing and
makeup.

At the peak of chaos, police officers were noticeably absent. Blocks away,
officers in riot gear slowly marched from intersection to intersection, firing
canisters of choking tear gas.

Chu said those officers were acting according to plan, focusing on securing the
downtown bit by bit, and then holding the ground they gained.

"The objective is to deploy in groups in a strategic manner. If the officers
went to every hot spot, the riot would have continued for much longer than it
did," said Chu, adding that officers were deployed throughout the area until the
riot began, when they were sent downtown.

"In hindsight, if we knew what would happen, we would have had more police
officers deployed there, but we didn't know that. We have to look at the whole
region in terms of any problems breaking out."

Vancouver police officials pointed the finger at a band of troublemakers who
came downtown prepared for violence.

Hockey fans, police have said, may have been watching, even egging the rioters
on, but they weren't the source of the problem.

"These were people who came equipped with masks, goggles and gasoline, even fire
extinguishers that they would use as weapons," Chu said, while acknowledging
others joined in.

"What we do see in some situations is the hard-core people that have the
premeditated intent to commit those criminal acts, and we have people on the
fringes, 'Hey, if a big riot breaks out, we'll join in.' So we do have that."

Riots followed the Canucks' 1994 Stanley Cup loss as well, but last year's
Winter Olympics went off nearly without a hitch.

The '94 riots caused $1 million in damage, leaving 200 people injured and
leading to charges against more than 150 people.

Chu said there were about three times as many rioters out Wednesday than in
1994, but he said lessons learned in the past 17 years saw police control the
riot in half the time.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Geoff Howe, The Canadian Press; Vancouver Canucks  fans riot following
Game 7 of the NHL Stanley Cup final in downtown  Vancouver on Wednesday.;
Photo: Darryl Dyck, The Canadian Press;  Employees of a Vancouver menswear store
clean up on Thursday after  the store was damaged by rioters on Wednesday
night.;
Photo: Darryl  Dyck, The Canadian Press; A message on plywood, which covers
smashed windows of The Bay in Vancouver, conveys one fan's  sentiment.;
Photo: Darryl Dyck, The Canadian Press; A man cleans up  broken glass outside a
branch of the Bank of Montreal in Vancouver  on Thursday.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Crime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Kamloops Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             976 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Majority of public support post-riot actions; Respondents want to see charges
continue and believe the police have learned something

BYLINE: Jeff Lee, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: WESTCOAST NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 1411 words


One year after the Stanley Cup riot, Metro Vancouver residents remain supportive
of an exhaustive criminal investigation aimed at bringing every single rioter to
justice, according to a new public opinion survey.

The Angus Reid Public Opinion poll also reveals people still have an
overwhelming belief that public officials and police knew the crowd would become
violent and should have taken more aggressive steps to prevent the riot.

The poll, done for The Vancouver Sun to mark the oneyear-anniversary of the riot
, showed nearly six in 10 people, or 59 per cent of respondents, believe police
and public officials have learned enough from the incident to respond better in
a riot situation.

And they overwhelmingly believe (90 per cent) that there should be a larger
police presence for crowd control in future sporting events, a reflection of
criticism after the riot that police misjudged the number of officers needed on
the streets during Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Final.

The online poll of 702 respondents in Metro Vancouver was conducted June 11-12
and has a margin of error of 3.7 percentage points.

The June 15, 2011 riot caused more than $5 million in damage and, at least in
the short term, blacked the city's international image. A 70-member Integrated
Riot Investigation Team made up of Vancouver police, RCMP and other officers,
continues to pore over thousands of images and videos in an effort to identify
all of the rioters, many of whom participated in looting and vandalism of
downtown businesses. So far, almost 700 charges have been laid against 225
people.

The poll reveals the public has not tired of the search for rioters, with 85 per
cent of respondents saying the investigation should continue.

Strikingly, that support is very high (83 per cent) among 18-to-34-year-old
respondents, the age demographic of most of the rioters. Support is highest
among those over age 55, with nine in 10 wanting justice to be pursued.

But for all that support, 73 per cent disagree with the statement that "there
was no way to know that the crowd would become violent."

And 42 per cent still don't believe the police handled the situation in a proper
manner.

THE CANUCKS RIOT: ONE YEAR LATER

On June 15, 2011, the Vancouver Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Final to
the Boston Bruins. Within three hours, the downtown core - which had attracted a
crowd of about 100,000 people - was in shambles. The loss had sparked a riot,
just as it had 17 years earlier.

Angry fans went on a rampage, smashing windows, looting and torching cars and
Dumpsters.

One year later, we've prepared a series of stories to look back on that night,
on how it changed the city and its effect on people caught in the mayhem.

Saturday: How the riot changed the city's approach to crowd control

Monday: The police officer

Tuesday: The kissing couple

Wednesday: The business owner

Thursday: The hero and the mayor

TODAY: The volunteer, plus a concluding column by legal affairs specialist Ian
Mulgrew

More online at vancouversun. com/riot

Angus Reid vice-president Mario Canseco said the results show a conflicting but
understandable view by residents who want justice, peace and safety but who also
question the ability of police and public officials to provide that.

"What I take away from it is the sense is that we seem to have forgiven some of
the problems that we have, and you see that in how 60 per cent say we've learned
our lesson," Canseco said. "But on the other hand, there are still a couple of
things there that are problematic, and one of them is a sense that this was
going to become violent. This excuse that the crowd suddenly got out of hand
because we couldn't score on [Boston Bruins goalie] Tim Thomas is just not
there. People don't see it that way. A lot of people were expecting something
like this to happen and there still is a little bit of animosity. But all of the
animosity, in a way, is directed at the rioters."

Respondents were split over whether the riot continues to tarnish Vancouver's
international image, which had just been buffed by the 2010 Winter Olympics.
Fifty-six per cent said no. But 40 per cent said yes, with the rest undecided.

Mayor Gregor Robertson said he hasn't heard that negative view from others when
he travels around the world

"I'm in regular communication with business, tourism and political leaders from
around the world and I attended a variety of international meetings and summits
over this past year. The riot didn't come up once in all of those
conversations," he said in a statement.

"There are important lessons learned over the past year, but what many of us
remember most is how the despicable acts of rioters that night also provoked a
remarkable outpouring of community strength and pride as Vancouver came together
to reclaim our streets in the hours and days that followed.

The response from the community demonstrated the true character and values of
our city and our citizens, and it's that kind of spirit that Vancouver continues
to be known for in every corner of the globe."

The mayor said he's not surprised that people overwhelmingly want the police
investigation to continue.

"Participating in a riot is a very serious offence, and I've always stressed the
importance of bringing all of the riot's perpetrators to justice. I'm pleased to
see that citizens from Vancouver and around our region overwhelmingly share this
resolve, and that there's such strong support for continuing our investigation
into riot-related offences."

When it comes to doing it all over again, just over 60 per cent of respondents
support the idea of Vancouver hosting another Stanley Cup Final live site
downtown. But nearly three-quarters believe it would be better to have smaller
neighbourhood gatherings instead of a central assembly area, an option Robertson
proposed in the aftermath of the riot. Only 32 per cent of those polled were
supportive of banning street parties, with twice as many being in favour of
them.

Charles Gauthier, the executive director of the Downtown Business Improvement
Association, said there's little appetite among his members - many of whom
suffered damage in the riot - for holding another Stanley Cup Final gathering
downtown.

"I don't think we're there yet. I think we need a bit of a break in terms of
having large outdoor viewing areas related to the Stanley Cup Final and wouldn't
be putting up my hand saying we should be doing it next year," he said. "I just
think we need to see more convictions under our belt for a clearer message that
this kind of behaviour is not going to be accepted."

Gauthier said it is music to his ears to hear the vast majority of young people
surveyed believe the riot investigation should continue.

Poll respondents split almost evenly on whether alcohol sales should be banned
on the day of the sporting event. But two-thirds (66 per cent) believe police
should be authorized to use non-lethal alternatives for crowd dispersal, such as
rubber bullets and bean bag shotguns. Canseco said he's not surprised that
people have doubts about the ability of police to handle large crowds.

"I think this is connected with the way we feel about the justice system," he
said. "The level of credibility for the justice system in B.C. is painfully low,
the lowest in the country, and that is part of the problem."

Canseco said the results are similar to recent surveys Angus Reid did around
public attitudes toward policing and the justice system several months ago.

Those polls showed that while 38 per cent of people nationally had confidence in
the RCMP, in B.C. that number was only 27 per cent. Similarly, confidence in
municipal forces in B.C. was 28 per cent. And when it came to the courts, B.C.
fared even worse. While only 19 per cent across Canada believed the justice
system was working well, in B.C. 90 per cent believed it was not.

Canseco said those views in B.C. - which directly affect attitudes around the
riot - are the result of police failures, such as the length of time it took to
catch serial killer Robert Pickton and the fatal Taser confrontation with Robert
Dziekanski at Vancouver International Airport.

"We've lost a lot of confidence in the police, and that is definitely one of the
problems we face at this particular stage," he said.

A YEAR AFTER THE RIOT

Metro Vancouver residents on the night that shook the city, lessons learned and
whether such celebrations should be allowed again

jefflee@vancouversun.com

Twitter.com/sunciviclee

Blog: www.vancouversun.com/jefflee

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             977 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 27, 2015 Sunday

Muzaffarnagar riot victims hail panel report

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 461 words


MEERUT: While the BJP has slammed the Vishnu Sahai Commission, which has
reportedly blamed the Muzaffarnagar communal riots of 2013 on politicians and
the local administration, riot victims have hailed the reported findings of the
commission and said the panel was right in indicting politicians.

Saleem Shahpur was headed to his home in Kakra village on September 7, 2013 when
he saw a rally with thousands of armed people. "It was a terrifying sight. A
procession of thousands of people was headed from Muzaffarnagar to Budhana via
Mansoorpur Road. Most of them were armed with countrymade weapons, but many had
automatic weapons. A former pradhan of my village was also present in the rally,
along with local politicians. I decided to hurry home. All I could think of was
the safety of my wife and two sons," he said.

While the findings of the report have not been made public, Shahpur said, "I
read that the report blamed the riots on politicians. I agree with it. There was
a clear political character to that procession, after which there was an
incident of stoning of a mosque where a young boy died. When I reached home, the
night was tense. Nobody left their house and it was eerily quiet. On the morning
of September 8, we decided to leave the village for good. Our fellow villagers
were spared the carnage that other villages like Phugana had to witness. They
destroyed our houses after we had left but I am glad that my family is safe."
Around 5,000 people had been rendered homeless after the communal riots in
August and September 2013.

Shahpur said the report was also right in concluding that the local
administration did not do enough to control the riots. "If the police had
dispersed the crowd during the rally, the carnage could have been avoided. The
district administration is also to blame."

Another riot victim, on condition of anonymity, said, "There was a panchayat
meeting near Kawal village, which was the flashpoint of the riots. This was at
the beginning, when the clashes were in the initial stages. I saw at least three
major BJP leaders, including Sardhana MLA Sangeet Som, at the panchayat. They
were delivering inflammatory speeches. Shortly after that meeting, mobs used to
do the rounds of our villages and shout terrifying slogans about wiping out our
entire community. The report is right in claiming politicians were behind the
riots."

Shahpur added that one of the main reasons why the riots spread through five
districts was inflammatory videos being circulated through WhatsApp. "People
from the other community, who we had lived peacefully with, used be huddled
around mobile phones and would grow quiet when we approached. Those messages
were being circulated at the behest of politicians."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             978 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

Muzaffarnagar riot victims hail panel report, say netas behind clashes

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 460 words


MEERUT: While the BJP has slammed the Vishnu Sahai Commission, which has
reportedly blamed the Muzaffarnagar communal riots of 2013 on politicians and
the local administration, riot victims have hailed the reported findings of the
commission and said the panel was right in indicting politicians.

Saleem Shahpur was headed to his home in Kakra village on September 7, 2013 when
he saw a rally with thousands of armed people. "It was a terrifying sight. A
procession of thousands of people was headed from Muzaffarnagar to Budhana via
Mansoorpur Road. Most of them were armed with countrymade weapons, but many had
automatic weapons. A former pradhan of my village was also present in the rally,
along with local politicians. I decided to hurry home. All I could think of was
the safety of my wife and two sons," he said.

While the findings of the report have not been made public, Shahpur said, "I
read that the report blamed the riots on politicians. I agree with it. There was
a clear political character to that procession, after which there was an
incident of stoning of a mosque where a young boy died. When I reached home, the
night was tense. Nobody left their house and it was eerily quiet. On the morning
of September 8, we decided to leave the village for good. Our fellow villagers
were spared the carnage that other villages like Phugana had to witness. They
destroyed our houses after we had left but I am glad that my family is safe."
Around 5,000 people had been rendered homeless after the communal riots in
August and September 2013.

Shahpur said the report was also right in concluding that the local
administration did not do enough to control the riots. "If the police had
dispersed the crowd during the rally, the carnage could have been avoided. The
district administration is also to blame."

Another riot victim, on condition of anonymity, said, "There was a panchayat
meeting near Kawal village, which was the flashpoint of the riots. This was at
the beginning, when the clashes were in the initial stages. I saw at least three
major BJP leaders, including Sardhana MLA Sangeet Som, at the panchayat. They
were delivering inflammatory speeches. Shortly after that meeting, mobs used to
do the rounds of our villages and shout terrifying slogans about wiping out our
entire community. The report is right in claiming politicians were behind the
riots."

Shahpur added that one of the main reasons why the riots spread through five
districts was inflammatory videos being circulated through WhatsApp. People from
the other community, who we had lived peacefully with, used be huddled around
mobile phones and would grow quiet when we approached. Those messages were being
circulated at the behest of politicians."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             979 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      August 6, 1991, Tuesday, 4* EDITION

RCMP avert Penticton riot repeat: 300 arrested during weekend as police get
thank-you cakes

BYLINE: HAROLD MUNRO VANSUN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A11Pg. A12Pg. A12Pg. A12Pg. A12Pg. A12Pg. A2Pg. A2Pg.
A2Pg. A4Pg. A8Pg

LENGTH: 772 words


Thank-you cakes flooded into the local police detachment as Penticton residents
expressed their gratitude to police officers who clamped down during the B.C.
Day weekend on the type of hooliganism that ravaged the Okanagan city a week
ago.

The combined efforts of 175 extra Mounties from across the province and
cooperative Penticton residents ensured a safe, riot-free long weekend, RCMP
spokesman Sgt. Peter Montague said Monday.

B.C. Solicitor-General Ivan Messmer told police, when he visited Penticton
Friday, to take a "zero tolerance" stance with anyone breaking the law, and the
RCMP responded with 300 arrests, 875 liquor seizures and 1,308 charges over
three days.

"Most of the 30,000 young people there were no problem at all. It was just that
nasty little group of one to two thousand people that just seem to be very
aimless and are looking for trouble," Montague said.

"The RCMP did a superb job," said Penticton Mayor Jake Kimberely. "They told me
they were here to help and keep our town intact. The police presence frustrated
those yahoos that wanted to cause problems."

A potential riot did develop at 1:30 a.m. Sunday when about 2,000 young people
gathered on Main Street, the site of the previous weekend's riot, said Montague.

"Things got very, very tense. They started to rock a vehicle. They were going to
tip it over. There were about 50 people in the crowd yelling and screaming
trying to incite the rest to riot," Montague said.

The RCMP riot squad was activated and stood at the ready. Kimberely was taken to
the airport prepared to board a helicopter to read the Riot Proclamation for the
second consecutive weekend.

"But we had approximately 100 (RCMP) members in the crowd and through moral
persuasion and lots of urging, they convinced the crowd to settle down,"
Montague said.

Montague said the people attempting to cause problems Sunday were out-of-towners
that police are beginning to recognize as chronic troublemakers who frequent
major summer events across B.C.

The extra RCMP were brought in to reinforce Penticton's 47 regular officers
after the July 28 riot in which about 2,000 young people rampaged through the
city centre, vandalizing stores along Main Street.

During the holiday weekend, 16 officers manned each roadblock at the two
entrances to the city and at two other locations on the outskirts from 7 a.m.
until 2 a.m.

The officers even found alcohol hidden under car hoods and in the walls of
vehicle doors.

"The roadblocks were very effective," said Montague. "We were able to turn a lot
of undesirables around. They were long days and testy days. Police checked
literally thousands and thousands of vehicles."

Police also closed beer and wine stores and off-sales from Penticton liquor
establishments at 1 p.m. Sunday.

"That just dried the liquor up yesterday," Montague said Monday. "There wasn't
any liquor to be seen on the streets last night. That made a tremendous
difference."

Scores of young people were charged for breaking a cargo bylaw passed recently
by Penticton city council that prohibits passengers from riding in the back of
pickup trucks, jeeps and hatchbacks.

Montague said enforcement of the cargo bylaw made it difficult for large groups
of youths to converge in a particular area of the city before the police could
get there.

"The community of Penticton - almost 100 per cent of the people - were totally
supportive of the policing operation," Montague said. "You couldn't walk down
the street without a person coming out and thanking the RCMP for being there -
basically for saving their community from the hoodlums.

"They were sending cakes into the detachment the size of tabletops with big
messages like 'We're fully behind you,' 'We support you,' 'We love you.'

"The only people that we didn't get along with were the 300 people that we had
to arrest."

Police also complimented Penticton youths for their aggressive stance against
the troublemakers.

"The young people of Penticton are certainly accountable to their own
community," Montague said.

"They were going to make sure nothing happened. They handed out leaflets and
pamphlets called Pride in Penticton. The people were really fully aware of what
they were getting into."

He said the positive response of local residents has the 175 out-of-town police
officers already volunteering to return again next year.

"The credit would have to go to the (Penticton) mayor and Mr. Messmer for
freeing up the manpower and making sure it was available," Montague said. "They
pay the bills. We had ample manpower to deal with any situation."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1991 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             980 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 3, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

INMATES 4-HOUR JAIL RIOT;
Special squads rushed in to quell the revolt as officers flee in fear

BYLINE: MATTHEW DRAKE; BEN GLAZE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 418 words


PRISONERS ran riot for nearly four hours yesterday as mass violence erupted on a
notorious prison wing.

Specialist units were rushed to the scene to tackle the trouble as 40 inmates
carried out a planned takeover.

Guards at HMP Maidstone "feared for their lives" as they were evacuated from the
wing after fighting broke out yesterday afternoon.

More than 180 foreign prisoners are held on the separate Thanet Wing of the Kent
jail.

Riot officers were rushed in from other prisons to secure the perimeter of the
Kent jail, which holds 600 sex offenders and foreign nationals.

The units, armed with shields and sidearm batons, were called in to stem the
violence as the rioters ran amok.

Ralph Valerio, of the Prison Officers Association told how staff were forced to
flee the wing and added: "This blew up so quickly it shows it was preplanned.

Tough: riot officers There were only five or six staff on duty and they
evacuated for their own safety - which they are trained to do - and called in
reinforcements.

"The POA has been warning about something like this for a long time but have
been ignored by senior management. This is 100 per cent down to cuts." And he
also accused the prison of allowing visits to continue after the riot started.
Mr Valerio said: "This was going on from 3pm and visits in other sections were
allowed to continue. It is madness as they may not have been able to confine
this and it could have led to copycat riots in other sections."

Last night it was confirmed the riot had been "resolved" with the help of
negotiators. It is not thought any prison staff were injured.

Maidstone is a Category C jail which houses prisoners, including sex offenders
and foreign nationals, with more than 18 months left to serve.

A 2011 report by prison watchdogs into Thanet Wing heavily criticised it.
Inmates reported high levels of victimisation from other prisoners and experts
said arrangements for "challenging and reducing" incidents of bullying and
victimisation were "underdeveloped". Their damning verdict added: "Violence
reduction attracted insufficient resources and information on violent incidents
and bullying were not sufficiently analysed to identify patterns and trends." A
Ministry Of Justice spokeswoman said last night: "National resources were
deployed. The riot involved 40 prisoners. This was confined to one wing and was
resolved without any injuries."

at prison " A copycat riot involving about 60 prisoners later broke out at Rye
Hill jail near Rugby.

matthew.drake@sundaymirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tough: riot officers at prison
Site of the rampage: Thanet Wing, which houses foreign prisoners. Inset, main
prison entrance

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             981 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           September 24, 2013 Tuesday

Shivpal visits riot-hit dists, faces protests like Akhilesh

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 413  words

DATELINE: Lucknow


After Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav faced angry protests during his visit to
riot-hit areas on September 15, it was PWD Minister Shivpal Yadav who witnessed
public wrath in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts on Monday.

Shivpal was accompanied by Minister of States Kamal Akhter, Shahid Manzoor, Ram
Sakal Gurjar, Chitranjan Swaroop and Jat leader Sahib Singh.  He landed at
Chandan Lal National Inter College in Kandhla, Shamli, and headed for the Eidgah
where a relief camp has been set up for the riot victims.

Shivpal and the ministers interacted with the victims and assured them of all
help.

A stage was also erected for Shivpal but he could not address the victims in the
absence of a microphone .

However, as Shivpal started to leave, riot victims started raising slogans
against the Samajwadi Party government. Amid this, Shivpal had a few words with
Maulana Iftekharul Hasan, a local cleric, and assured him of an impartial
inquiry and strong action against the guilty.

"SP is hurt by the riots. I am appealing for maintaining peace. We will not
spare the culprit even if he is a high-profile person. We will try to expunge
the fake cases which have been registered during the riots," Shivpal said.

Shivpal them proceded towards Jogiyakheda relief camp where he assured victims
of houses. Minor commotion was witnessed when a woman who was denied a meeting
with the Minister.

Shivpal, however, neither visited relief camp at Basikalan where victims were
waiting for him nor Kawal village where a triple murder had triggered violence.
He visited house of journalist Rajesh Verma who was killed during the riots.

Shivpal also went to Jat-dominated Kakda village where villagers blamed former
MP Ameer Alam, the SP candidate from Bijnore for the Lok Sabha elections, for
the violence.

Shivpal, however, did not respond to the charges. Alam, who was in the
cavalcade, skipped visiting Kakad village which had seen three casualties in the
riots.

Interacting with the media, Shivpal said some of those who instigated riots are
behind bars and others will be arrested soon. He defended his cabinet colleague
Azam Khan and said he is just and honest. "Woh paak-saaf hain. There is a
conspiracy against him."

Defending the state government, he said: "The government did its best to stop
the riots. The military was called within eight hours. Opposition parties are
unnecessary targetting the government. A judicial inquiry has been set up and
things will be clear after its report," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             982 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday

UK riots: Met police pressure media to hand over videos and pictures

BYLINE: Josh Hallidayguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 535 words

ABSTRACT

Scotland Yard wants to obtain footage filmed during the riots that 'could show
crime in action'. By Josh Halliday

FULL TEXT

Newspapers and broadcasters, including Sky News and the Guardian, have come
under pressure from the Metropolitan police to hand over all videos and pictures
related to the London riots earlier this month.

ITN, which produces ITV News and Channel 4 News, the Times and also the BBC are
among the media organisations resisting efforts by Scotland Yard to obtain
footage filmed during the riots that "could show crime in action".

The demands follow David Cameron's call for the media to take "" and immediately
release all material to help police track down and punish suspected rioters and
looters.

Police forces, including West Yorkshire and Greater Manchester police, began to
informally approach media groups a fortnight ago, urging them to voluntarily
disclose all footage - used or unused - of civil unrest during the England riots
.

The Met police has sent follow-up requests to several newspapers and
broadcasters. Scotland Yard said it would obtain a court order to force the
disclosure if the media did not volunteer material.

Each of the media groups said they would fiercely resist the demands to avoid
being seen as an evidence-gathering arm of the police.

However, the media will be forced to hand over unused material if issued with a
production order under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. Under Pace,
the judge is supposed to weigh the interest of the police in obtaining evidence
with the public interest in a free press.

Hundreds of police officers are working through about 40,000 hours of CCTV
footage in stations across the country. In London, Met officers are believed to
be studying more than 20,000 hours of video at 30 viewing facilities.

A spokesman for the Met said: "The police are identifying people through
pictures, CCTV and through the media to ensure that people are brought to
justice. We would ask the media to work with the police to ensure that happens."

Fran Unsworth, the BBC's head of newsgathering, said a fortnight ago that the
corporation would face down requests to hand over footage without a court order.

"It's a matter of principle for us, we don't just hand over our rushes [raw
footage] to the police without them going through a proper process which is via
the courts," she said in . "It doesn't really matter what the nature of the
offences are - if we went down that road of making judgments of the nature of
the offences, that would compromise our editorial standards."

A spokesman for the BBC said on Tuesday: "We have standard processes in place to
deal with requests from the police through our litigation department, regardless
of the subject matter. Any request would need to be dealt with by the courts."

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication,
please mark clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on  and .

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             983 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 15, 2001 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

PM defends hard line on rioters

BYLINE: Tom Allard and, Penelope Debelle

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words


The Prime Minister, Mr Howard, yesterday accused the Opposition Leader, Mr
Beazley, of "siding" with rioters at refugee camps.

While refugee advocates accused guards of inciting a riot by bashing a
handcuffed teenager at Port Hedland, Mr Howard rejected Mr Beazley's call for an
inquiry.

"We're certainly not going to do what Mr Beazley does and basically side with
the people who riot and demonstrate," Mr Howard said.

"I mean every time there's a riot and demonstration Mr Beazley says you should
have an inquiry. That infers that the authorities are in the wrong and the
rioters are correct."

Friday's riot at the Port Hedland detention centre a converted mining camp in
the Kimberley was triggered by fears that guards had bashed the youth, an asylum
seeker who resisted being taken into isolation, according to refugee groups.

The Government denied the young Iranian had been bashed, saying it was a
misunderstanding that arose when five men were removed from the isolated
detention centre and put in Port Hedland's police lock-up.

About 100 asylum seekers threw stones and damaged buildings. An officer was
treated in hospital for minor injuries and the riot ended when the guards
sprayed tear gas.

Mr Asem Judeh, chairman of the Palestinian Refugees and Exile Awareness
Association in Melbourne, said he was called twice from inside the Port Hedland
camp by a source.

"Other detainees got angry because they were basically beating children and this
is what initiated the riot," Mr Judeh said.

He said he was told the boy was aged 15 or younger.

In response, other detainees had thrown stones and the riot broke out, he said.

Frequent disturbances and claims of violence and intimidation on both sides have
prompted calls from ethnic groups, Labor and the Democrats for an inquiry into
the management of refugee camps, which are run by a private company.

Instead, Mr Howard yesterday applauded the "tough stand" of the Immigration
Minister, Mr Ruddock.

"There is no way that a government I lead is going to bow to the intimidation
involved in those riots and I really think the attitude that Mr Beazley is
taking, in effect siding with the rioters, is wrong ," Mr Howard said.

But Mr Beazley also urged "all those in detention centres to not riot, not
destroy property". He said the violence was counterproductive and offensive to
ordinary Australians.

A spokeswoman for Mr Beazley later said Mr Howard's remarks were the
"irresponsible claims of an increasingly desperate and rattled Prime Minister".

Mr Howard's comments on the nationally syndicated radio show of Alan Jones came
as he made a pitch to One Nation voters, noting they had legitimate concerns
that were better addressed by the Coalition than Ms Pauline Hanson.

"Most of the concerns of One Nation voters are the concerns of Australians," Mr
Howard said. "They're not bigoted concerns. The great bulk of people who are
attracted to One Nation are concerned about their economic future. They're
concerned about the pace of economic change."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2001 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             984 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           January 16, 2013 Wednesday

Chavan orders inquiry into Maharashtra riots

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: Mumbai


umbai, Jan. 16 -- Under pressure from various quarters, the Maharashtra
Government has ordered a judicial probe into the January 6, 2013 communal riots,
in which six persons were killed and 169 others injured.

In an announcement made after touring the riot-hit areas of Dhule, Chief
Minister Prithviraj Chavan said that a retired judge would conduct a probe into
the circumstances leading to the communal riots in the north Maharashtra town.
The retired judge concerned would be asked to submit his report to the State
Government at the earliest.

According to the Chief Minister, the probe will go into the cause of the riots
and suggest measures to prevent recurrence of similar disturbances in future.

Though the Chief Minister did not specify on whether the judicial probe would go
into the circumstances leading to the police opening fire against rioters,
official sources said that this issue would be one of the terms of references
for the inquiry.

The Maharashtra Government is expected to issue a notification on the setting up
of a judicial inquiry in the coming days. The notification will spell out the
terms of reference for the probe.

The decision to institute a judicial probe follows a demand from several
quarters, including the ruling Congress-NCP leaders and local residents.

Preliminary investigations have revealed that all the six persons killed in the
January 6, 2013 riots had succumbed to wounds sustained in the firing resorted
to by the police during the riots.

Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Government has announced that the next of kin of
those killed in the riots would be paid '5 lakh each as compensation, while
those who have been rendered permanently disabled due to injuries would be paid
'3 lakh each.

The families who have lost their homes in the riots would be paid compensation
on the basis of norms stipulated in a notification issued by the State
Government in August 2004. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Pioneer. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             985 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



              The Bath County News-Outlook (Owingsville, Kentucky)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  May 7, 2015

Lets Reason Together;
RIOTS AND RIGHTS

BYLINE: The Bath County News-Outlook staff

LENGTH: 270  words


The recent riots in Baltimore seem to be part of the. fabric of modern society.
A man dies while committing a crime, while in pursuit, when resisting arrest, or
while in custody. We have come to think that death gives society the right to
riot; and so the Mayor says to the police, "Give the rioters some space" to do
their own thing. Let's see: they throw rocks at police, break into businesses
and steal whatever they can take, burn cars, and anything else their debased
mind can think of. And all the while the police lineup and watch to "keep things
from getting out of hand"! Give me a break. The moment a riot begins things are
"out of hand". The first window broken out of a business, the first car that is
burned, or the first rock thrown at police officers is the time for the heavy
hand of the law to move in and restore order. There is no "right to riot". We
can speak up. We can have peaceful protests. We can vote. But we have no right
to disregard the law. We have no right to destroy other people's property. We
have no right to throw stones at anyone. We have no right to riot and mob
violence is not the way of peace.

The real tragedy of riots is that some of the people involved go to church every
Sunday. And according to news reports some "preachers" even encourage the
rioters to engage in mob violence. Preachers who incite riots should read and
heed Exodus 23:2, "You shall not follow a crowd to do evil..." Is it evil to
loot businesses? Is it evil to destroy other people's property? How can
preachers claim to follow "the Prince of Peace" and encourage others to riot?

Thank you for reasoning with me.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Community

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BAO

                      Copyright 2015 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                 Copyright 2015 The Bath County News - Outlook


                             986 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                              June 27, 2014 Friday

Local sports results for June 27, 2014

LENGTH: 2783 words


Track & field14 and Under Junior Olympics B MeetAt Brewer


Boys Results: Teams -- Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


(Age groups: Mites 8 & under. Bantams 9-10, Midgets 11-12, Youth 13-14)


80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 15.24. 2, Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.97. 3, Jackson


Campbell, Red Riots, 18.06. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Liang-kang Lin, Old Town,
18.62. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 19.77. 3, Peter Blackwell, Bangor,
21.11. 800 Race Walk Midget: 1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:39.43. 2, Tyler
Libby, Hampden, 6:45.78. 100 Dash Mite:


1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 17.87. 2, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 18.37. 3, Ryan
Hallett, Hampden, 18.43. 100 Dash Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 16.25. 2,
Carter Brocato, Bangor, 16.92. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 17.08. 100 Dash
Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 13.93. 2, Logan Geiser, Brewer, 15.54. 3, Jacob
O'Leary, Old Town, 15.83. 100 Dash Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.29. 2,
Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.66. 3, Ian Wright, Central, 13.74.


100 Dash 15 yr old: 1.Elijah Ames, Central, 13.60. 2. Nathaniel Jerome, Central,
14.65. 400 Dash Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:29.99. 2, Cole Mazzei,
Bangor, 1:30.10. 3, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:32.04. 400 Dash Bantam: 1, Carter
Brocato, Bangor, 1:24.17. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:26.24. 3, Ryan Shorey,
Bangor, 1:28.50. 400 Dash Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:04.27. 2, Bryce Burns,
Central, 1:17.79. 3, Pierce Hall, Central, 1:21.72. 400 Dash Youth: 1, Gabriel
Coffey, Bangor, 1:02.84. 2, Hunter Arguin, Central, 1:04.60. 3, Tony Manev, Red
Riots, 1:05.03. 400 Dash 15 yr olds: 1. Elijah Ames, Central, 1:06.92. 2. Matt
Keresey, Old Town, 1:09. 1500 Run Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 6:03.93.
2, Evan Smith, Red Riots, 6:45.16. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 6:49.84. 1500 Run
Midget: 1, Liam Farrell, Red Riots, 6:05.81. 2, Nicholas Cormier, Blue Hill,
6:09.01. 3, Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:24.79. 1500 Run Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey,
Bangor, 4:53.15. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots, 5:31.60. 3, Jonathan Steelman,
Red Riots, 5:49.38. 1500 Run 15 yr old: 1. Matt Keresey, Old Town, 5:15.44.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Owen Fullerton, Kodiak
Gerken, Corey Atwood, Julian Worster), 1:24.53. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Kameron Stoops, Sean Patrick Lanigan, Ben Arsenault, Jack Brewer), 1:29.80.
4x100 Relay Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'B' (Evan Smith, Brandon Smith,
Cooper White, Lucas Allen), 1:17.93. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Ty Velgouse,
Rowan Oko, Kennen Bean, Ryan St. Peter), 1:21.81. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Chase Campbell, Colby Farnsworth, Matthew Needham, Jeremiah Treadwell),
1:22.49.


4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Nicholas Haggerty, Nick
Letourneau, Jacob


O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:04.47. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Lucas Ames,
Jackson Kenney, Liam Velgouse, Bryce Burns), 1:06.52. 3, Blue Hill Peninsula 'A'
(Nicholas Cormier, William Larson, Grady Walsh, Kaleb Nevells), 1:10.71. 4x100
Relay Youth: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Hunter Arguin, Elijah Ames(15),
Nathaniel Jerome (15), Ian Wright), 56.43. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Trent
Lick, Michael Livengood, Tony Manev, Jonathan Steelman), 1:00.63. Javelin Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 61-04. 2, Ty Walker, Old Town, 51-03. 3, Dashel Knapp,
Bangor, 40-00.


Javelin Bantam: 1, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-06. 2, Nathan Tibbets, Old
Town, 63-04. 3,


Cody Butler, Cool Runnings, 48-01. Javelin Midget: 1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town,
93-01. 2, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 79-01. 3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots, 79-00.
Javelin Youth:


1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 100-11. 2, Parker Allen, Blue Hill, 94-04. 3, Trent
Lick, Red Riots, 79-05. Long Jump Mite: 1, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 7-10.50. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 7-10. 3,


Elijah Proudfoot, Old Town, 7-09.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato,
Bangor, 10-11.75. 2, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 10-05.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue
Hill, 9-03. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 12-04. 2, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 11-11. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 11-03.75. Long Jump Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 16-11. 2, Kyle Smith, Old Town, 14-09.50. 3, Gavin
Pelkey, Lincoln, 13-07.50. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Matt Keresey Old Town, 6-00.
Discus Midget: 1, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 60-06. 2, Austin Proudfoot, Old Town,
53-01. 3, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 50-06. Discus Youth: 1, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 86-10. 2, CJ Iverson, Old Town, 81-04. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots, 79-11.


Discus 15-yr olds: 1. Nathaniel Jerome, Central, 58-11. Pole Vault 15 yr old: 1.
Matt Keresey, Old Town, 6-0.


Girls Results: Teams: Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Addie Trefts, Old Town, 7:28.34. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1,
Libby Frazee, Bangor, 5:07.85. 2, Megan Brewer, Red Riots, 5:10.54. 3, Aliyah
Goldsmith, Central, 5:58.44. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central,
16.57. 2, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 17.22. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 18.73. 100
Hurdles Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.75. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 20.37. 3, Susanna Jakub, Blue Hill, 21.36. 100 Hurdles 15 yr old: 1. Emma
Shearer, Hampden, 19.56. 2. Audrey Duplissee, Brewer, 21.12.


200 Dash Mite: 1, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 39.09. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
39.24. 3, Vayda


Billings, Brewer, 40.37. 200 Dash Bantam: 1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 33.19. 2,
Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 34.30. 3, Bayley Casavant, Central, 35.77. 200 Dash
Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 32.00. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 32.28.
3, Krista Bass, Red Riots, 33.12.


200 Dash Youth: 1, Mykayla Hoggard, Bangor, 30.33. 2, Ivy Manner-Wheelden, Blue
Hill, 30.99.


3, Morgan Paradis, Old Town, 31.01. 200 Dash 15 yr old: 1. Audrey Duplissee,
Brewer, 24.12.


800 Run Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots, 3:14.07. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
3:18.62. 3,


Vayda Billings, Brewer, 3:34.37. 800 Run Bantam: 1, Nora White, Red Riots,
3:16.68. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:23.20. 3, Ashley Talcove, Old Town,
3:29.33. 800 Run Midget:


1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 2:57.44. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 3:02.81. 3,
McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:09.19. 800 Run Youth: 1, Camille Kohtala, Red
Riots, 2:51.10. 2, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:53.03. 3, Tess Williamson, Blue
Hill, 3:01.88. 3000 Run Midget: 1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 12:43.71. 2, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:18.17. 3000 Run Youth: 1, Helen Shearer, Hampden, 12:30.76.
2, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:40.17. 3, Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 15:19.19.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Kamryn Tyrrell, Kacy Tyrrell,
Natalie Giles, Kendall Hanson), 1:24.44. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Brooke
Wentworth, Ruth


White, Ayda Sonnenberg, Solece Campbell), 1:30.08. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A'
(Ava Harvey, Lily Heitmann, Katie Seger, Lucy Veilleux), 1:55.13. 4x400 Relay
Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Nora White, Laura Kirkpatrick, Alexandria
Hutchison, Megan Brewer), 6:38.16. 2, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Julianna
Hesseltine, Laura Butterfield, Isabelle Gerken, Esmae Stockley), 6:44.37. 3, Old
Town Track Club 'A' (Lillianna Powers, Emma Trefts, Sadie


Phillips, Hailee McCoy), 6:52.84. 4x400 Relay Midget: 1, Bangor Rec Dept 'A'
(Willow Knapp, Mackenzie Lambert, Emma Hall, Alyssa Elliot), 5:43.10. 2, Red
Riot Track Club 'A' (Krista Bass, Erin Gerbi, Eva White, Ella Allan-Rahill),
5:51.57. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Eliza McPhee


, Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts), 6:15.35. 4x400 Relay Youth: 1,
Blue Hill Peninsula 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:08.34. 2, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Elizabeth Trefts, Grace
Harvey, Lily Moran, Morgan Paradis), 5:20.09. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Lily
Levitsky, Maddy Marks, Camille Kohtala, Brooklyne White), 5:35.84. Triple Jump
Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 25-11. 2, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 22-00. 3,


Izabelle Trefts, Old Town, 18-08. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
32-09.50. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-11. 3, Delaney Veilleux, Old Town,
27-01.50. High Jump Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. 2, Vayda Billings,
Brewer, 2-10. 3, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 2-06. 3, Keira Stearns, Blue Hill,
2-06. High Jump Bantam: 1, Lilyann Geiser, Hampden, 3-04. 2, Kimberly Thompson,
Old Town, 3-02. 3, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 3-00. 3, Emily Jones, Old Town, 3-00.
High Jump Midget: 1, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 3-10. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red
Riots, 3-08. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 3-06. High Jump Youth: 1, Camille
Kohtala, Red Riots, 4-10. 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 4-10. 3, Kalista
Severance, Lincoln, 4-02. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-00.
2, Erica Karp, Brewer, 5-06. Shot Put Mite:


1, Chloe Daigle, Central, 15-00.50. 2, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill, 13-08.50. 3,
Sophie Hepler, Cool Runnings, 11-08. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central,
20-10. 2, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 16-09. 3, Anna Gray, Central, 15-06.50. Shot Put
Midget: 1, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town,
24-02.75. 3, Emilee Cohen, Central, 20-10. Shot Put Youth: 1, Emma Hargreaves,
Old Town, 30-10.50. 2, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 30-09.50.


3, Arianna Gordon, Old Town, 23-06.50. Shot Put 15 yr old: 1. Emma Shearer,
Hampden, 25-4.00. All-star tourneysLITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALLDistrict 3Ages
9-10Saturday, June 28


G1: Holbrook vs. Lincoln, 10 a.m.


G2: Old Town vs. Bronco Little League (Hampden Area), 12:30 p.m.


G3: Bangor East vs. Orrington, 3 p.m.


G4: Millinocket vs. Hermon, 5:30 p.m.Sunday, June 29


G5: G1 winner vs. Houlton, 10 a.m.


G6: G2 winner vs,. Sebasticook, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G3 winner vs. Bangor West, 3 p.m.


G8: G4 winner vs. Brewer, 5:30 p.m.Tuesday, July 1


G9: G3 loser vs. G5 loser, 3:30 p.m.


G10: G4 loser vs. G6 loser, 5:30 p.m..Legion baseballZONE 1 SCHEDULESunday, June
29


Bangor at Motor City, 12:30 p.m.


Penquis at Waldo, 12:30 p.m.


Trenton at Hampden, 12:30 p.m.Monday, June 30


Brewer at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.


Hampden at Waldo, 5:30 p.m.


Trenton at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Brewer, 7:30 p.m.


Hampden at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.


Trenton at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.Wednesday, July 2


Brewer at Hampden, 5:30 p.m.


Penquis at Bangor, 5:30 p.m.


Waldo at Motor City, 5:30 p.m.JUNIOR SCHEDULEThursday, June 26


Augusta 6, Bangor 4Saturday, June 28


Bangor at Oxford Hills (2), high school field, 10 a.m.Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Fairfield, Lawrence High field, 5:30 p.m.GolfMSGAJunior Tour resultsAt
Woodlands Club


Boys 15-17: Chris deWolf 36-4 --77; Craig Smith 40-40--80; Matthew Caron
37-43--80; Kenny Tuttle 39-42--81; Macarthur Kim 39-42--81; Alexander Spiller
43-42--85; rew Kane 46-42--88; Greg Kalagias 45-45--90; Justin Keaney 44-46--90;
Logan Picard 48-44--92; Jackman Mickiewicz 44-49--93; Alex Whitmore 47-48--95;
Noah Jule 49-47--96; John Witt 48-49--97; Matthew Keaney 49-49--98; Michael
Bryant 47-51--98; Marc Yankowsky 56-48--104; Colby Todd- 53-53--106; Nathaniel
Roberts 46-60--106; Hogan Tracy 58-54--112; A.J. Parisi 67-49--116; Boys 13-14:
Austin Legge 36-45--81; Thomas Higgins 41-43--84; Adam White- 43-43--86; Cole
Anderson 47-41--88; Lucas Roop 49-43--92; Max Altznauer 52-42--94; Reed Mayo
Foehl 49-45--94; Jeremy Baker 52-45--97; Ryan Kaczmarek 51-46--97; Peter Haber
Jr. 52-47--99; Jacob Laplume 49-52--101; Mark Witt 55-51--106; Kyle Cholod
59-49--108; Ben Gosselin 58-52--110; Dana Hinchliffe 55-59--114; Garrett Tracy
56-58--114; Mac Leahy 63-52--115; Kevin Ly 58-58--116; Iain Frumiento
62-55--117; Girls 15-17: Mckenze Coyne 52-57--109; Sydney Caron 62-60--122;
Girls 13-14: Bailey Plourde 45-42--87; Janelle Bryant 48-47--95; Jordan Laplume
57-48--105; 12 and under: Caleb Manuel 44; Armand Ouellette 47; Ethan Haag 49;
Ryan Stimson 54; Owen Himmer 56; William K Ly 58; David Libby 63; Bennett Berg
63; Cole Binette 68; Andrew Libby 68; Liam Crossman 74; Ruby Haylock 76LOCALAt
Lucerne GC


Senior Scramble -- 1. Dave Robertson, Royce Morrison, Jim Bonzey, Bob Francis
-7; 2. Robin Young, Scott Mac Arthur, Bob Allen -4; 3. Kerry Woodbury, Mark
Johnson, Ralph Alley, Carl Williams -3; 4. Barry Harris, Mike Dore, Russ Black
-2; 5. John Somes, Bob Mc Kenney, Bob Fraser +1; Pins: No. 2 John Somes 9-7, No.
6 Scott Mac Arthur 3-5At Bangor Muni GCGood Samaritan Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Kathy Anderson, Sandi Bourgoin, Gloria Attenweiler, Marlene Viger 34;
2. Kathy Constantine, Louise Shindler, Anne Pooler, Marilyn Rice 35; Net: 1.
Shelly Sund, Martha Ward, Bridgit Cayer, Molly Fitzgerald 20; 2. Janet Anderson,
Lill Wark, Ruth Richardson, Judy Collins 22; Pins: No. 4 Kathy Anderson 39-6;
No. 6 Jane Black 3-10; Straight Drive: Bridgit Cayer; Long Drive: Kelli
RoyBangor Muni GCHusson University Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Derek Loupin, Rick Sinclair, Alan Anderson, Garlie Gray 55; 2. Jason
Harvey, Rick Pelletier, Butch Arthurs, Jake Arthurs 57; 3. Barry Hobert, Mike
St.Thomas, Jim Greer, Nick Carparelli 58; Net: 1. Jason Rodriguez, Jeff Rankin,
Justin Gauthier, Jason Birmingham 51; 2. Tony Cerbone, Tom Tilley, Floyd Libby,
Gib Coffin 52; 3. Dave Paul, Bill Fernandez, Tom Fernandez, Jason Folsom 54;
Pins: No. 3 Jason Harvey 2-6; No. 6 Tony Cerbone 10-6; No. 11 Barry Hobert 2-6;
No. 16 Barry Hobert 8-1; Straight Drive: Aaron LargayAt Foxcroft GC


Seniors League -- 1. Duce Carleton, Dave Finley, Wayne Beard -3; 2. Bill
Robinson, Dave Porter Sr., Joe Bozzelli, John Schnoer -2; 3. (tie) Erwin
Dellaire, Vic Woodbrey, Pete Caruso Even; 3. Mike Weatherall, Don Moulton, Stan
Higgins, Fred Weston Even; Pins: No. 13 Duce Carleton 16-2; No.15 Joe Bozzelli
11-0At Hermon Meadow


Friday Night Points -- Blind Draw: 1.Bill O'Rourke, Joel McCluskey +2; 2. Jim
Wilson, Ernie Hein E; 3. Byron Dunbar, Tim McCluskey -1; 4. (tie) Tom Berry,
Brad Holmes -4; Rick Boody, John Trott -4; 5. Al Stuber, Alden Brown -5At Rocky
Knoll GC


Couples League -- Steve and Tracy Jameson, Meg Dexter, Chad Boucher 31; Steve
and Jenny Williams, Gary Chessa, Barbara Baker 33; Don and Michelle Atherton,
Tom Ivers, Barbara Bryant 34 (mc); Pins: No. 12 Don Crowell 4-3, No. 17 Michelle
Atherton 14-3At Kebo Valley GC


Green Mountain -- Net Skins: 2. Aaron Tibbetts; 3. Keith Clark; 10. Hank
Tibbetts, 11; Bryce Cough, 17; Aaron Tibbetts; 18. Karl HallettAt Pine Hill
GCR.H Foster


Friday Senior League -- Modified Stableford: 1. Bruce Treworgy, Bob King and
Rick Robertson +20; 2. Mike French, Pat Davis and Darrell Grover +10; 3. Mike
French, Dickie Reed and Bunny Russell -3; 4. Ed Dorion, Ralph Holyoke, Phil
Newbury -6; Pins: No. 5 Darrell Grover 18-4, No.14 Darrell Grover 15-2At
Streamside GC


Friday Night Scramble -- Jimmy Mylen Jr., Francis Larabee, Jim Sieben and Jacob
Gran -5; Pins: No. 4 Greg Reed 3-5, No. 8 Bruce Fields 19-0Harness racingBANGOR
RACEWAYFriday ResultsFIRST, Pace, $2,800


Northern Regent, Ro Cushing, 8.00 4.20 17.80


Mani Hh, Ga Mosher, 3.80 2.80


Rd Shoeless, Ke Switzer Jr, 2.80


T: 1:57.3. Ex. (3/7) $41.40; Tri. (3/7/1) $69.40SECOND, Pace, $3,000


Dojea Six Pac, Ga Mosher, 9.20 3.60 4.20


Western Rival, He Campbell, 41.60 10.60


Smackdown Brown, Ke Switzer Jr, 3.00


T: 1:58.1. Ex. (6/8) $309.40; Tri. (6/8/1) $1,661.60; 1st Half DD (3/6)
$119.60THIRD, Pace, $4,000


Conkers Conquest, Ga Mosher, 9.60 4.00 3.40


Daydreamin Lynx, He Campbell, 2.60 2.20


Cage Fighter, Gr Bowden, 3.80


T: 1:55.1. Ex. (8/6) $31.00; Tri. (8/6/3) $339.40FOURTH, Trot, $3,000


Motown Dreamgirl, Ph Sowers, 2.20 2.20 2.10


Cantabmyway, Pe Gerry, 5.60 4.60


Maine Muscle, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 2:01.1. Ex. (5/3) $16.00; Tri. (5/3/6) $48.40FIFTH, Pace, $3,000


Ohm Like Clockwork, Ti Hudson, 22.60 9.80 6.80


Western Bay, Ru Lanpher Jr, 12.40 4.00


Vickers Hanover, Aa Hall, 6.80


T: 1:58.2. Ex. (1/7) $444.80; Tri. (1/a/a) $28.40SIXTH, Pace, $3,000


May Street Bon, Ph Sowers, 2.80 2.40 2.20


Notin Fancy, Ch Shambo, 3.20 2.60


Imperial Art, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 1:59.2. Ex. (4/3) $9.20; Tri. (4/3/5) $12.60SEVENTH, Pace, $6,000


Catchajolt, Ke Switzer Jr, 5.80 3.40 2.40


Summer Hope, Ch Nye, 9.20 3.60


Country Fresh, Ro Cushing, 2.60


T: 1:56.3. Ex. (1/2) $28.40


Tri. (1/2/4) $63.40; Pick 3 Races (A/4/1) $10.40EIGHTH, Trot, $10,661


Maine Cast, Mi Cushing, 30.00 12.20 6.20


Star Studded Cast, Ma Athearn, 4.60 6.40


C C C, Ki Ireland, 2.80


T: 2:03.0. Ex. (3/1) $113.00; Tri. (3/1/4) $342.20NINTH, Trot, $8,000


Sky Keeper, Ke Switzer Jr, 4.40 2.60 2.40


Victory Tax, Ga Mosher, 4.60 3.20


Neverdie, Mi Cushing, 5.60


T: 1:56.4. Ex. (4/6) $28.00; Tri. (4/6/2) $205.40TENTH, Pace, $2,800


Take The Risk, Ch Nye, 3.80 3.00 2.80


Win The West, Ga Mosher, 5.40 3.00


I'm A Lucky Man, Ro Cushing, 3.60


T: 1:58.3. Ex. (4/3) $15.20; Tri. (4/3/1) $25.60 1st Half Late lDD (4/4) $8.40


Total Handle-$22,877

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             987 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                              June 27, 2014 Friday

Local sports results for June 27, 2014

LENGTH: 2783 words


Track & field14 and Under Junior Olympics B MeetAt Brewer


Boys Results: Teams -- Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


(Age groups: Mites 8 & under. Bantams 9-10, Midgets 11-12, Youth 13-14)


80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 15.24. 2, Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.97. 3, Jackson


Campbell, Red Riots, 18.06. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Liang-kang Lin, Old Town,
18.62. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 19.77. 3, Peter Blackwell, Bangor,
21.11. 800 Race Walk Midget: 1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:39.43. 2, Tyler
Libby, Hampden, 6:45.78. 100 Dash Mite:


1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 17.87. 2, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 18.37. 3, Ryan
Hallett, Hampden, 18.43. 100 Dash Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 16.25. 2,
Carter Brocato, Bangor, 16.92. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 17.08. 100 Dash
Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 13.93. 2, Logan Geiser, Brewer, 15.54. 3, Jacob
O'Leary, Old Town, 15.83. 100 Dash Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.29. 2,
Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.66. 3, Ian Wright, Central, 13.74.


100 Dash 15 yr old: 1.Elijah Ames, Central, 13.60. 2. Nathaniel Jerome, Central,
14.65. 400 Dash Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:29.99. 2, Cole Mazzei,
Bangor, 1:30.10. 3, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:32.04. 400 Dash Bantam: 1, Carter
Brocato, Bangor, 1:24.17. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:26.24. 3, Ryan Shorey,
Bangor, 1:28.50. 400 Dash Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:04.27. 2, Bryce Burns,
Central, 1:17.79. 3, Pierce Hall, Central, 1:21.72. 400 Dash Youth: 1, Gabriel
Coffey, Bangor, 1:02.84. 2, Hunter Arguin, Central, 1:04.60. 3, Tony Manev, Red
Riots, 1:05.03. 400 Dash 15 yr olds: 1. Elijah Ames, Central, 1:06.92. 2. Matt
Keresey, Old Town, 1:09. 1500 Run Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 6:03.93.
2, Evan Smith, Red Riots, 6:45.16. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 6:49.84. 1500 Run
Midget: 1, Liam Farrell, Red Riots, 6:05.81. 2, Nicholas Cormier, Blue Hill,
6:09.01. 3, Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:24.79. 1500 Run Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey,
Bangor, 4:53.15. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots, 5:31.60. 3, Jonathan Steelman,
Red Riots, 5:49.38. 1500 Run 15 yr old: 1. Matt Keresey, Old Town, 5:15.44.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Owen Fullerton, Kodiak
Gerken, Corey Atwood, Julian Worster), 1:24.53. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Kameron Stoops, Sean Patrick Lanigan, Ben Arsenault, Jack Brewer), 1:29.80.
4x100 Relay Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'B' (Evan Smith, Brandon Smith,
Cooper White, Lucas Allen), 1:17.93. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Ty Velgouse,
Rowan Oko, Kennen Bean, Ryan St. Peter), 1:21.81. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Chase Campbell, Colby Farnsworth, Matthew Needham, Jeremiah Treadwell),
1:22.49.


4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Nicholas Haggerty, Nick
Letourneau, Jacob


O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:04.47. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Lucas Ames,
Jackson Kenney, Liam Velgouse, Bryce Burns), 1:06.52. 3, Blue Hill Peninsula 'A'
(Nicholas Cormier, William Larson, Grady Walsh, Kaleb Nevells), 1:10.71. 4x100
Relay Youth: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Hunter Arguin, Elijah Ames(15),
Nathaniel Jerome (15), Ian Wright), 56.43. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Trent
Lick, Michael Livengood, Tony Manev, Jonathan Steelman), 1:00.63. Javelin Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 61-04. 2, Ty Walker, Old Town, 51-03. 3, Dashel Knapp,
Bangor, 40-00.


Javelin Bantam: 1, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-06. 2, Nathan Tibbets, Old
Town, 63-04. 3,


Cody Butler, Cool Runnings, 48-01. Javelin Midget: 1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town,
93-01. 2, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 79-01. 3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots, 79-00.
Javelin Youth:


1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 100-11. 2, Parker Allen, Blue Hill, 94-04. 3, Trent
Lick, Red Riots, 79-05. Long Jump Mite: 1, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 7-10.50. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 7-10. 3,


Elijah Proudfoot, Old Town, 7-09.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato,
Bangor, 10-11.75. 2, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 10-05.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue
Hill, 9-03. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 12-04. 2, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 11-11. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 11-03.75. Long Jump Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 16-11. 2, Kyle Smith, Old Town, 14-09.50. 3, Gavin
Pelkey, Lincoln, 13-07.50. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Matt Keresey Old Town, 6-00.
Discus Midget: 1, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 60-06. 2, Austin Proudfoot, Old Town,
53-01. 3, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 50-06. Discus Youth: 1, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 86-10. 2, CJ Iverson, Old Town, 81-04. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots, 79-11.


Discus 15-yr olds: 1. Nathaniel Jerome, Central, 58-11. Pole Vault 15 yr old: 1.
Matt Keresey, Old Town, 6-0.


Girls Results: Teams: Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Addie Trefts, Old Town, 7:28.34. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1,
Libby Frazee, Bangor, 5:07.85. 2, Megan Brewer, Red Riots, 5:10.54. 3, Aliyah
Goldsmith, Central, 5:58.44. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central,
16.57. 2, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 17.22. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 18.73. 100
Hurdles Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.75. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 20.37. 3, Susanna Jakub, Blue Hill, 21.36. 100 Hurdles 15 yr old: 1. Emma
Shearer, Hampden, 19.56. 2. Audrey Duplissee, Brewer, 21.12.


200 Dash Mite: 1, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 39.09. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
39.24. 3, Vayda


Billings, Brewer, 40.37. 200 Dash Bantam: 1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 33.19. 2,
Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 34.30. 3, Bayley Casavant, Central, 35.77. 200 Dash
Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 32.00. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 32.28.
3, Krista Bass, Red Riots, 33.12.


200 Dash Youth: 1, Mykayla Hoggard, Bangor, 30.33. 2, Ivy Manner-Wheelden, Blue
Hill, 30.99.


3, Morgan Paradis, Old Town, 31.01. 200 Dash 15 yr old: 1. Audrey Duplissee,
Brewer, 24.12.


800 Run Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots, 3:14.07. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
3:18.62. 3,


Vayda Billings, Brewer, 3:34.37. 800 Run Bantam: 1, Nora White, Red Riots,
3:16.68. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:23.20. 3, Ashley Talcove, Old Town,
3:29.33. 800 Run Midget:


1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 2:57.44. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 3:02.81. 3,
McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:09.19. 800 Run Youth: 1, Camille Kohtala, Red
Riots, 2:51.10. 2, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:53.03. 3, Tess Williamson, Blue
Hill, 3:01.88. 3000 Run Midget: 1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 12:43.71. 2, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:18.17. 3000 Run Youth: 1, Helen Shearer, Hampden, 12:30.76.
2, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:40.17. 3, Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 15:19.19.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Kamryn Tyrrell, Kacy Tyrrell,
Natalie Giles, Kendall Hanson), 1:24.44. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Brooke
Wentworth, Ruth


White, Ayda Sonnenberg, Solece Campbell), 1:30.08. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A'
(Ava Harvey, Lily Heitmann, Katie Seger, Lucy Veilleux), 1:55.13. 4x400 Relay
Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Nora White, Laura Kirkpatrick, Alexandria
Hutchison, Megan Brewer), 6:38.16. 2, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Julianna
Hesseltine, Laura Butterfield, Isabelle Gerken, Esmae Stockley), 6:44.37. 3, Old
Town Track Club 'A' (Lillianna Powers, Emma Trefts, Sadie


Phillips, Hailee McCoy), 6:52.84. 4x400 Relay Midget: 1, Bangor Rec Dept 'A'
(Willow Knapp, Mackenzie Lambert, Emma Hall, Alyssa Elliot), 5:43.10. 2, Red
Riot Track Club 'A' (Krista Bass, Erin Gerbi, Eva White, Ella Allan-Rahill),
5:51.57. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Eliza McPhee


, Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts), 6:15.35. 4x400 Relay Youth: 1,
Blue Hill Peninsula 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:08.34. 2, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Elizabeth Trefts, Grace
Harvey, Lily Moran, Morgan Paradis), 5:20.09. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Lily
Levitsky, Maddy Marks, Camille Kohtala, Brooklyne White), 5:35.84. Triple Jump
Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 25-11. 2, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 22-00. 3,


Izabelle Trefts, Old Town, 18-08. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
32-09.50. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-11. 3, Delaney Veilleux, Old Town,
27-01.50. High Jump Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. 2, Vayda Billings,
Brewer, 2-10. 3, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 2-06. 3, Keira Stearns, Blue Hill,
2-06. High Jump Bantam: 1, Lilyann Geiser, Hampden, 3-04. 2, Kimberly Thompson,
Old Town, 3-02. 3, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 3-00. 3, Emily Jones, Old Town, 3-00.
High Jump Midget: 1, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 3-10. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red
Riots, 3-08. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 3-06. High Jump Youth: 1, Camille
Kohtala, Red Riots, 4-10. 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 4-10. 3, Kalista
Severance, Lincoln, 4-02. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-00.
2, Erica Karp, Brewer, 5-06. Shot Put Mite:


1, Chloe Daigle, Central, 15-00.50. 2, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill, 13-08.50. 3,
Sophie Hepler, Cool Runnings, 11-08. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central,
20-10. 2, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 16-09. 3, Anna Gray, Central, 15-06.50. Shot Put
Midget: 1, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town,
24-02.75. 3, Emilee Cohen, Central, 20-10. Shot Put Youth: 1, Emma Hargreaves,
Old Town, 30-10.50. 2, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 30-09.50.


3, Arianna Gordon, Old Town, 23-06.50. Shot Put 15 yr old: 1. Emma Shearer,
Hampden, 25-4.00. All-star tourneysLITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALLDistrict 3Ages
9-10Saturday, June 28


G1: Holbrook vs. Lincoln, 10 a.m.


G2: Old Town vs. Bronco Little League (Hampden Area), 12:30 p.m.


G3: Bangor East vs. Orrington, 3 p.m.


G4: Millinocket vs. Hermon, 5:30 p.m.Sunday, June 29


G5: G1 winner vs. Houlton, 10 a.m.


G6: G2 winner vs,. Sebasticook, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G3 winner vs. Bangor West, 3 p.m.


G8: G4 winner vs. Brewer, 5:30 p.m.Tuesday, July 1


G9: G3 loser vs. G5 loser, 3:30 p.m.


G10: G4 loser vs. G6 loser, 5:30 p.m..Legion baseballZONE 1 SCHEDULESunday, June
29


Bangor at Motor City, 12:30 p.m.


Penquis at Waldo, 12:30 p.m.


Trenton at Hampden, 12:30 p.m.Monday, June 30


Brewer at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.


Hampden at Waldo, 5:30 p.m.


Trenton at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Brewer, 7:30 p.m.


Hampden at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.


Trenton at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.Wednesday, July 2


Brewer at Hampden, 5:30 p.m.


Penquis at Bangor, 5:30 p.m.


Waldo at Motor City, 5:30 p.m.JUNIOR SCHEDULEThursday, June 26


Augusta 6, Bangor 4Saturday, June 28


Bangor at Oxford Hills (2), high school field, 10 a.m.Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Fairfield, Lawrence High field, 5:30 p.m.GolfMSGAJunior Tour resultsAt
Woodlands Club


Boys 15-17: Chris deWolf 36-4 --77; Craig Smith 40-40--80; Matthew Caron
37-43--80; Kenny Tuttle 39-42--81; Macarthur Kim 39-42--81; Alexander Spiller
43-42--85; rew Kane 46-42--88; Greg Kalagias 45-45--90; Justin Keaney 44-46--90;
Logan Picard 48-44--92; Jackman Mickiewicz 44-49--93; Alex Whitmore 47-48--95;
Noah Jule 49-47--96; John Witt 48-49--97; Matthew Keaney 49-49--98; Michael
Bryant 47-51--98; Marc Yankowsky 56-48--104; Colby Todd- 53-53--106; Nathaniel
Roberts 46-60--106; Hogan Tracy 58-54--112; A.J. Parisi 67-49--116; Boys 13-14:
Austin Legge 36-45--81; Thomas Higgins 41-43--84; Adam White- 43-43--86; Cole
Anderson 47-41--88; Lucas Roop 49-43--92; Max Altznauer 52-42--94; Reed Mayo
Foehl 49-45--94; Jeremy Baker 52-45--97; Ryan Kaczmarek 51-46--97; Peter Haber
Jr. 52-47--99; Jacob Laplume 49-52--101; Mark Witt 55-51--106; Kyle Cholod
59-49--108; Ben Gosselin 58-52--110; Dana Hinchliffe 55-59--114; Garrett Tracy
56-58--114; Mac Leahy 63-52--115; Kevin Ly 58-58--116; Iain Frumiento
62-55--117; Girls 15-17: Mckenze Coyne 52-57--109; Sydney Caron 62-60--122;
Girls 13-14: Bailey Plourde 45-42--87; Janelle Bryant 48-47--95; Jordan Laplume
57-48--105; 12 and under: Caleb Manuel 44; Armand Ouellette 47; Ethan Haag 49;
Ryan Stimson 54; Owen Himmer 56; William K Ly 58; David Libby 63; Bennett Berg
63; Cole Binette 68; Andrew Libby 68; Liam Crossman 74; Ruby Haylock 76LOCALAt
Lucerne GC


Senior Scramble -- 1. Dave Robertson, Royce Morrison, Jim Bonzey, Bob Francis
-7; 2. Robin Young, Scott Mac Arthur, Bob Allen -4; 3. Kerry Woodbury, Mark
Johnson, Ralph Alley, Carl Williams -3; 4. Barry Harris, Mike Dore, Russ Black
-2; 5. John Somes, Bob Mc Kenney, Bob Fraser +1; Pins: No. 2 John Somes 9-7, No.
6 Scott Mac Arthur 3-5At Bangor Muni GCGood Samaritan Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Kathy Anderson, Sandi Bourgoin, Gloria Attenweiler, Marlene Viger 34;
2. Kathy Constantine, Louise Shindler, Anne Pooler, Marilyn Rice 35; Net: 1.
Shelly Sund, Martha Ward, Bridgit Cayer, Molly Fitzgerald 20; 2. Janet Anderson,
Lill Wark, Ruth Richardson, Judy Collins 22; Pins: No. 4 Kathy Anderson 39-6;
No. 6 Jane Black 3-10; Straight Drive: Bridgit Cayer; Long Drive: Kelli
RoyBangor Muni GCHusson University Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Derek Loupin, Rick Sinclair, Alan Anderson, Garlie Gray 55; 2. Jason
Harvey, Rick Pelletier, Butch Arthurs, Jake Arthurs 57; 3. Barry Hobert, Mike
St.Thomas, Jim Greer, Nick Carparelli 58; Net: 1. Jason Rodriguez, Jeff Rankin,
Justin Gauthier, Jason Birmingham 51; 2. Tony Cerbone, Tom Tilley, Floyd Libby,
Gib Coffin 52; 3. Dave Paul, Bill Fernandez, Tom Fernandez, Jason Folsom 54;
Pins: No. 3 Jason Harvey 2-6; No. 6 Tony Cerbone 10-6; No. 11 Barry Hobert 2-6;
No. 16 Barry Hobert 8-1; Straight Drive: Aaron LargayAt Foxcroft GC


Seniors League -- 1. Duce Carleton, Dave Finley, Wayne Beard -3; 2. Bill
Robinson, Dave Porter Sr., Joe Bozzelli, John Schnoer -2; 3. (tie) Erwin
Dellaire, Vic Woodbrey, Pete Caruso Even; 3. Mike Weatherall, Don Moulton, Stan
Higgins, Fred Weston Even; Pins: No. 13 Duce Carleton 16-2; No.15 Joe Bozzelli
11-0At Hermon Meadow


Friday Night Points -- Blind Draw: 1.Bill O'Rourke, Joel McCluskey +2; 2. Jim
Wilson, Ernie Hein E; 3. Byron Dunbar, Tim McCluskey -1; 4. (tie) Tom Berry,
Brad Holmes -4; Rick Boody, John Trott -4; 5. Al Stuber, Alden Brown -5At Rocky
Knoll GC


Couples League -- Steve and Tracy Jameson, Meg Dexter, Chad Boucher 31; Steve
and Jenny Williams, Gary Chessa, Barbara Baker 33; Don and Michelle Atherton,
Tom Ivers, Barbara Bryant 34 (mc); Pins: No. 12 Don Crowell 4-3, No. 17 Michelle
Atherton 14-3At Kebo Valley GC


Green Mountain -- Net Skins: 2. Aaron Tibbetts; 3. Keith Clark; 10. Hank
Tibbetts, 11; Bryce Cough, 17; Aaron Tibbetts; 18. Karl HallettAt Pine Hill
GCR.H Foster


Friday Senior League -- Modified Stableford: 1. Bruce Treworgy, Bob King and
Rick Robertson +20; 2. Mike French, Pat Davis and Darrell Grover +10; 3. Mike
French, Dickie Reed and Bunny Russell -3; 4. Ed Dorion, Ralph Holyoke, Phil
Newbury -6; Pins: No. 5 Darrell Grover 18-4, No.14 Darrell Grover 15-2At
Streamside GC


Friday Night Scramble -- Jimmy Mylen Jr., Francis Larabee, Jim Sieben and Jacob
Gran -5; Pins: No. 4 Greg Reed 3-5, No. 8 Bruce Fields 19-0Harness racingBANGOR
RACEWAYFriday ResultsFIRST, Pace, $2,800


Northern Regent, Ro Cushing, 8.00 4.20 17.80


Mani Hh, Ga Mosher, 3.80 2.80


Rd Shoeless, Ke Switzer Jr, 2.80


T: 1:57.3. Ex. (3/7) $41.40; Tri. (3/7/1) $69.40SECOND, Pace, $3,000


Dojea Six Pac, Ga Mosher, 9.20 3.60 4.20


Western Rival, He Campbell, 41.60 10.60


Smackdown Brown, Ke Switzer Jr, 3.00


T: 1:58.1. Ex. (6/8) $309.40; Tri. (6/8/1) $1,661.60; 1st Half DD (3/6)
$119.60THIRD, Pace, $4,000


Conkers Conquest, Ga Mosher, 9.60 4.00 3.40


Daydreamin Lynx, He Campbell, 2.60 2.20


Cage Fighter, Gr Bowden, 3.80


T: 1:55.1. Ex. (8/6) $31.00; Tri. (8/6/3) $339.40FOURTH, Trot, $3,000


Motown Dreamgirl, Ph Sowers, 2.20 2.20 2.10


Cantabmyway, Pe Gerry, 5.60 4.60


Maine Muscle, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 2:01.1. Ex. (5/3) $16.00; Tri. (5/3/6) $48.40FIFTH, Pace, $3,000


Ohm Like Clockwork, Ti Hudson, 22.60 9.80 6.80


Western Bay, Ru Lanpher Jr, 12.40 4.00


Vickers Hanover, Aa Hall, 6.80


T: 1:58.2. Ex. (1/7) $444.80; Tri. (1/a/a) $28.40SIXTH, Pace, $3,000


May Street Bon, Ph Sowers, 2.80 2.40 2.20


Notin Fancy, Ch Shambo, 3.20 2.60


Imperial Art, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 1:59.2. Ex. (4/3) $9.20; Tri. (4/3/5) $12.60SEVENTH, Pace, $6,000


Catchajolt, Ke Switzer Jr, 5.80 3.40 2.40


Summer Hope, Ch Nye, 9.20 3.60


Country Fresh, Ro Cushing, 2.60


T: 1:56.3. Ex. (1/2) $28.40


Tri. (1/2/4) $63.40; Pick 3 Races (A/4/1) $10.40EIGHTH, Trot, $10,661


Maine Cast, Mi Cushing, 30.00 12.20 6.20


Star Studded Cast, Ma Athearn, 4.60 6.40


C C C, Ki Ireland, 2.80


T: 2:03.0. Ex. (3/1) $113.00; Tri. (3/1/4) $342.20NINTH, Trot, $8,000


Sky Keeper, Ke Switzer Jr, 4.40 2.60 2.40


Victory Tax, Ga Mosher, 4.60 3.20


Neverdie, Mi Cushing, 5.60


T: 1:56.4. Ex. (4/6) $28.00; Tri. (4/6/2) $205.40TENTH, Pace, $2,800


Take The Risk, Ch Nye, 3.80 3.00 2.80


Win The West, Ga Mosher, 5.40 3.00


I'm A Lucky Man, Ro Cushing, 3.60


T: 1:58.3. Ex. (4/3) $15.20; Tri. (4/3/1) $25.60 1st Half Late lDD (4/4) $8.40


Total Handle-$22,877

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             988 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

HALF OF ALL RIOT DAMAGES CLAIMS ARE REJECTED

BYLINE: James Anthony, Mark Blunden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 202 words


HUNDREDS of victims of the London riots face ruin after their compensation
claims were rejected, it was revealed today.

Many families and businesses who lost everything to the looters last August said
that despite David Cameron's promise to get them "back up and running" they had
been entangled in red tape.

More than half of 4,500 claims submitted nationwide under the Riot Damages Act,
were rejected or discontinued, revealed a study from the Reading the Riots
project by the London School of Economics and the Guardian.

David Lammy, the Labour MP whose Tottenham constituency was the flashpoint of
the riots, said: "It's staggering that as we approach a year on from the riots,
these people find themselves in a situation where their businesses are closing."

More than £9.5 million has been paid out by police forces. Of the 4,558 claims
received, 1,351 were settled, 2,331 were rejected and 876 are still outstanding.

The Met received 3,487 claims, of which 1,009 were settled, 1,829 were rejected
or discontinued and 629 are ongoing. The rest it called "inactive". The force
said its payout estimate of £200 million to £300  million had been revised to
£107.2  million "based on the number of ongoing claims".

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             989 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 27, 2016 Saturday

Over 13k Muzzaffarnagar riots victims not on electoral rolls, claim activists

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: MEERUT

LENGTH: 391 words


Meerut: With the process of voter registration for 2017 UP polls set to begin
soon, an uphill task is awaiting the Shamli district administration which has to
ensure that all the riot-displaced people of neighbouring Muzaffarnagar district
make it to the electoral rolls.

Activists put the number of displaced people in Shamli at 13,000, a figure which
the district administration termed as "exaggerated".

"We have been working with Muzaffarnagar riots victims since 2013. Getting their
documents in order is an uphill task. After the riots, around 6,000 families
were forced to shift their base. Of these, close to 2,800 families came and
settled in Shamli district," said Akram Akhtar, project manager of an NGO, Afkar
India Foundation.

"It has been three years to the Muzaffarnagar riots. But around 13,000 people
still don't have voter ID cards. These people are not on the electoral rolls,
and the elections are almost upon us," Akhtar added.

He alleged that the district administration has done several surveys, but
skipped the areas where riot-displaced people live.

"I think, this was only done out of convenience. I hope that this time, these
people will be able to get their names on the list," Akhtar said.

When contacted, Shamli district magistrate (DM) Sujeet Kumar said several people
have been included in the voter list and the 13,000 figure is exaggerated.

"It is true that some people may not have voter IDs, but the figure of 13,000
people is exaggerated. Perhaps the activists are quoting old figure. In the last
couple of years, several displaced people have been registered as voters," the
DM said.

He also said that the administration will launch a campaign to include more
voters.

"We are starting a drive from September 15. We will set up camps in rural areas
so that people can easily register to vote. As far as displaced people are
concerned, they are citizens of the country. We will ensure that they are able
to exercise their right to vote," Kumar said.

Activists in neighbouring Muzaffarnagar claim that riot-victims faced similar
problems there, but on a smaller scale.

"We don't have the final figures yet since we are in the middle of conducting
our survey. But riot-victims in Muzaffarnagar have also not got their voter ID
cards yet. The number, however, is much less than in Shamli."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             990 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 27, 2016 Saturday

Over 13k Muzzaffarnagar riots victims not on electoral rolls, claim activists

BYLINE: Uday Rana

SECTION: MEERUT

LENGTH: 391 words


Meerut: With the process of voter registration for 2017 UP polls set to begin
soon, an uphill task is awaiting the Shamli district administration which has to
ensure that all the riot-displaced people of neighbouring Muzaffarnagar district
make it to the electoral rolls.

Activists put the number of displaced people in Shamli at 13,000, a figure which
the district administration termed as "exaggerated".

"We have been working with Muzaffarnagar riots victims since 2013. Getting their
documents in order is an uphill task. After the riots, around 6,000 families
were forced to shift their base. Of these, close to 2,800 families came and
settled in Shamli district," said Akram Akhtar, project manager of an NGO, Afkar
India Foundation.

"It has been three years to the Muzaffarnagar riots. But around 13,000 people
still don't have voter ID cards. These people are not on the electoral rolls,
and the elections are almost upon us," Akhtar added.

He alleged that the district administration has done several surveys, but
skipped the areas where riot-displaced people live.

"I think, this was only done out of convenience. I hope that this time, these
people will be able to get their names on the list," Akhtar said.

When contacted, Shamli district magistrate (DM) Sujeet Kumar said several people
have been included in the voter list and the 13,000 figure is exaggerated.

"It is true that some people may not have voter IDs, but the figure of 13,000
people is exaggerated. Perhaps the activists are quoting old figure. In the last
couple of years, several displaced people have been registered as voters," the
DM said.

He also said that the administration will launch a campaign to include more
voters.

"We are starting a drive from September 15. We will set up camps in rural areas
so that people can easily register to vote. As far as displaced people are
concerned, they are citizens of the country. We will ensure that they are able
to exercise their right to vote," Kumar said.

Activists in neighbouring Muzaffarnagar claim that riot-victims faced similar
problems there, but on a smaller scale.

"We don't have the final figures yet since we are in the middle of conducting
our survey. But riot-victims in Muzaffarnagar have also not got their voter ID
cards yet. The number, however, is much less than in Shamli."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             991 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Critic of VPD riot handling rapped; Police chief says 'self-proclaimed expert'
misrepresented his qualifications

BYLINE: Niamh Scallan, The Province

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 537  words


Vancouver's police chief slammed a major critic of the VPD's handling of the
violent hockey riot in an email circulated to police staff Tuesday.

In his memo, Chief Const. Jim Chu denounced "self-proclaimed expert" Bob
Whitelaw -the man quoted in recent post-riot news reports as an investigator
involved with the 1994 riot report.

According to Chu, the B.C. Police Commission hired Whitelaw in July 1994 to help
write the report, not work as an investigator. Chu also said Whitelaw's report
was deemed "inadequate" and thrown out.

"I confirmed yesterday that Mr. Whitelaw did not write the '94 report and that
he has misrepresented to the news media his involvement with B.C. Police
Commission," Chu said, responding to Whitelaw's criticism that '94
recommendations weren't followed during last week's riot.

According to Chu, Whitelaw's report made "unrealistic" recommendations
-including zero-tolerance on horn honking and instead of "liquor pour-outs,"
issuing violation tickets to every single person -and played no investigative
role at the time.

"It's time to set the record straight," Chu said, slamming the media for using
Whitelaw as an 'expert.'

"Without checking, [media] have reported his disparaging attacks against the
integrity of the VPD without checking the facts."

Whitelaw has grabbed headlines lambasting the VPD for their handling of the
violent hockey riot.

On June 16, he told CBC News that "things went amiss . . . and there was no
command and control" during the riot. He also told the National Post on June 18
that he was "professionally disappointed because of the work and effort that
went into reports."

But according to the former chairman of the B.C. Police Commission, David Edgar,
Whitelaw had nothing to do with the final '94 Report on the Riot -and media
reports citing him as a "riot investigator" are false.

Edgar said the commission hired Whitelaw as a report writer, but "when the time
came to receive the report, his work was judged to be below standard and it
wasn't used."

"It makes me angry that he's taking credit for work that he didn't do and
representing himself as something that he's not," Edgar said. "He was taken off
the project and the work was given to one of our senior researchers who actually
wrote the actual report."

But Whitelaw denies all accusations. Reached at his home in Ottawa, the former
president of the Canadian Council of Better Business Bureaus -who also worked as
a journalist with Thomson newspapers in the late '60s -said his work in '94 was
well received.

"Well, there's a lot of time that's passed in 17 years and that's the
difficulty," he said when asked about Chu's allegations. "But I'm surprised."

Whitelaw pointed to a letter written a month after the '94 riot report was
published, where Edgar praised his work ethic during the investigation. "As a
result of this work, the final report was able to reflect accurately the
essential facts," Edgar said of Whitelaw in the letter dated Nov. 8, 1994.

Asked about his praise for Whitelaw in the 1994 letter, Edgar said "maybe I
shouldn't have written it."

"But if I had known [Whitelaw] was going to masquerade as the author of the
report, I obviously would never had written it," he said.

nscallan@theprovince.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wayne Leidenfrost -PNG; JIm Chu; Postmedia News;  Bob Whitelaw worked
on a report for the B.C. Police Commission concerning the 1994 riot in
Vancouverafter the Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final to the New York
Rangers.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Province, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                                Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             992 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday
                                 Third Edition

Police not to blame: chief defends riot response;
CRONULLA FALLOUT

BYLINE: Ben Cubby and AAP

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words


THE Police Commissioner, Ken Moroney, has defended the decision not to break up
a group of about 100 youths who metin a south-western Sydney park the night
after the Cronulla riots, allegedly to plan revenge attacks.

The handling of the gathering, which was reported in the Herald last week, is a
further blow to police over how they dealt with the violence that followed the
riots on December 11 riots.

"At Punchbowl Park on Monday the 12th, that's the day after the Cronulla riot,
two of our police vehicles ... observed a number of people," Mr Moroney said.
"There was dialogue between those officers and the commander [and] the commander
took an operational decision for those four police officers not to advance on
the crowd.

"He's one of my most experienced commanders and I'm sure what would have been
foremost in his mind was the safety and wellbeing of those [officers]."

The group gathered in the park numbered "probably less than 100", he said.

Mr Moroney yesterday removed the head of the riot taskforce over unreleased
closed-circuit TV footage of a bashing that occurred that same night.

The victim of the attack, Steve, said last night he was set upon by a gang of
about 30 men. "They were pretty much consumed by rage. They were angry, very
angry," he told A Current Affair.

"It felt like a long time but it was only about a minute or so ... It seemed
like 20 or 30 guys. I really don't know. They just surrounded me. It was only
the police sirens that made them stop."

Steve's arm was broken and his knee damaged in the assault.

The Premier, Morris Iemma, yesterday described the revenge attackers as grubs.

"The use of the term is acceptable. Have a look at the video ... they're grubs,
they're cowards, they're grubs and we're going to ... bring them to justice, and
it shouldn't offend anybody of any particular background."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: "They're grubs" ... Ken Moroney, right, and Morris Iemma
fight back over claims they handled the riots badly. Below, the revenge victim.
Photos: Nick Moir and Channel 9

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             993 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             June 28, 2014 Saturday

Local sports results for June 27, 2014

LENGTH: 2783 words


Track & field


14 and Under Junior Olympics B Meet


At Brewer


Boys Results: Teams -- Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


(Age groups: Mites 8 & under. Bantams 9-10, Midgets 11-12, Youth 13-14)


80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 15.24. 2, Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.97. 3, Jackson


Campbell, Red Riots, 18.06. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Liang-kang Lin, Old Town,
18.62. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 19.77. 3, Peter Blackwell, Bangor,
21.11. 800 Race Walk Midget: 1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:39.43. 2, Tyler
Libby, Hampden, 6:45.78. 100 Dash Mite:


1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 17.87. 2, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 18.37. 3, Ryan
Hallett, Hampden, 18.43. 100 Dash Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 16.25. 2,
Carter Brocato, Bangor, 16.92. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 17.08. 100 Dash
Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 13.93. 2, Logan Geiser, Brewer, 15.54. 3, Jacob
O'Leary, Old Town, 15.83. 100 Dash Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.29. 2,
Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.66. 3, Ian Wright, Central, 13.74.


100 Dash 15 yr old: 1.Elijah Ames, Central, 13.60. 2. Nathaniel Jerome, Central,
14.65. 400 Dash Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:29.99. 2, Cole Mazzei,
Bangor, 1:30.10. 3, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:32.04. 400 Dash Bantam: 1, Carter
Brocato, Bangor, 1:24.17. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:26.24. 3, Ryan Shorey,
Bangor, 1:28.50. 400 Dash Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:04.27. 2, Bryce Burns,
Central, 1:17.79. 3, Pierce Hall, Central, 1:21.72. 400 Dash Youth: 1, Gabriel
Coffey, Bangor, 1:02.84. 2, Hunter Arguin, Central, 1:04.60. 3, Tony Manev, Red
Riots, 1:05.03. 400 Dash 15 yr olds: 1. Elijah Ames, Central, 1:06.92. 2. Matt
Keresey, Old Town, 1:09. 1500 Run Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 6:03.93.
2, Evan Smith, Red Riots, 6:45.16. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 6:49.84. 1500 Run
Midget: 1, Liam Farrell, Red Riots, 6:05.81. 2, Nicholas Cormier, Blue Hill,
6:09.01. 3, Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:24.79. 1500 Run Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey,
Bangor, 4:53.15. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots, 5:31.60. 3, Jonathan Steelman,
Red Riots, 5:49.38. 1500 Run 15 yr old: 1. Matt Keresey, Old Town, 5:15.44.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Owen Fullerton, Kodiak
Gerken, Corey Atwood, Julian Worster), 1:24.53. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Kameron Stoops, Sean Patrick Lanigan, Ben Arsenault, Jack Brewer), 1:29.80.
4x100 Relay Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'B' (Evan Smith, Brandon Smith,
Cooper White, Lucas Allen), 1:17.93. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Ty Velgouse,
Rowan Oko, Kennen Bean, Ryan St. Peter), 1:21.81. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Chase Campbell, Colby Farnsworth, Matthew Needham, Jeremiah Treadwell),
1:22.49.


4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Nicholas Haggerty, Nick
Letourneau, Jacob


O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:04.47. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Lucas Ames,
Jackson Kenney, Liam Velgouse, Bryce Burns), 1:06.52. 3, Blue Hill Peninsula 'A'
(Nicholas Cormier, William Larson, Grady Walsh, Kaleb Nevells), 1:10.71. 4x100
Relay Youth: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Hunter Arguin, Elijah Ames(15),
Nathaniel Jerome (15), Ian Wright), 56.43. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Trent
Lick, Michael Livengood, Tony Manev, Jonathan Steelman), 1:00.63. Javelin Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 61-04. 2, Ty Walker, Old Town, 51-03. 3, Dashel Knapp,
Bangor, 40-00.


Javelin Bantam: 1, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-06. 2, Nathan Tibbets, Old
Town, 63-04. 3,


Cody Butler, Cool Runnings, 48-01. Javelin Midget: 1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town,
93-01. 2, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 79-01. 3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots, 79-00.
Javelin Youth:


1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 100-11. 2, Parker Allen, Blue Hill, 94-04. 3, Trent
Lick, Red Riots, 79-05. Long Jump Mite: 1, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 7-10.50. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 7-10. 3,


Elijah Proudfoot, Old Town, 7-09.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato,
Bangor, 10-11.75. 2, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 10-05.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue
Hill, 9-03. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 12-04. 2, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 11-11. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 11-03.75. Long Jump Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 16-11. 2, Kyle Smith, Old Town, 14-09.50. 3, Gavin
Pelkey, Lincoln, 13-07.50. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Matt Keresey Old Town, 6-00.
Discus Midget: 1, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 60-06. 2, Austin Proudfoot, Old Town,
53-01. 3, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 50-06. Discus Youth: 1, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 86-10. 2, CJ Iverson, Old Town, 81-04. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots, 79-11.


Discus 15-yr olds: 1. Nathaniel Jerome, Central, 58-11. Pole Vault 15 yr old: 1.
Matt Keresey, Old Town, 6-0.


Girls Results: Teams: Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Addie Trefts, Old Town, 7:28.34. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1,
Libby Frazee, Bangor, 5:07.85. 2, Megan Brewer, Red Riots, 5:10.54. 3, Aliyah
Goldsmith, Central, 5:58.44. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central,
16.57. 2, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 17.22. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 18.73. 100
Hurdles Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.75. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 20.37. 3, Susanna Jakub, Blue Hill, 21.36. 100 Hurdles 15 yr old: 1. Emma
Shearer, Hampden, 19.56. 2. Audrey Duplissee, Brewer, 21.12.


200 Dash Mite: 1, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 39.09. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
39.24. 3, Vayda


Billings, Brewer, 40.37. 200 Dash Bantam: 1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 33.19. 2,
Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 34.30. 3, Bayley Casavant, Central, 35.77. 200 Dash
Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 32.00. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 32.28.
3, Krista Bass, Red Riots, 33.12.


200 Dash Youth: 1, Mykayla Hoggard, Bangor, 30.33. 2, Ivy Manner-Wheelden, Blue
Hill, 30.99.


3, Morgan Paradis, Old Town, 31.01. 200 Dash 15 yr old: 1. Audrey Duplissee,
Brewer, 24.12.


800 Run Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots, 3:14.07. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
3:18.62. 3,


Vayda Billings, Brewer, 3:34.37. 800 Run Bantam: 1, Nora White, Red Riots,
3:16.68. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:23.20. 3, Ashley Talcove, Old Town,
3:29.33. 800 Run Midget:


1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 2:57.44. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 3:02.81. 3,
McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:09.19. 800 Run Youth: 1, Camille Kohtala, Red
Riots, 2:51.10. 2, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:53.03. 3, Tess Williamson, Blue
Hill, 3:01.88. 3000 Run Midget: 1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 12:43.71. 2, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:18.17. 3000 Run Youth: 1, Helen Shearer, Hampden, 12:30.76.
2, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:40.17. 3, Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 15:19.19.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Kamryn Tyrrell, Kacy Tyrrell,
Natalie Giles, Kendall Hanson), 1:24.44. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Brooke
Wentworth, Ruth


White, Ayda Sonnenberg, Solece Campbell), 1:30.08. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A'
(Ava Harvey, Lily Heitmann, Katie Seger, Lucy Veilleux), 1:55.13. 4x400 Relay
Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Nora White, Laura Kirkpatrick, Alexandria
Hutchison, Megan Brewer), 6:38.16. 2, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Julianna
Hesseltine, Laura Butterfield, Isabelle Gerken, Esmae Stockley), 6:44.37. 3, Old
Town Track Club 'A' (Lillianna Powers, Emma Trefts, Sadie


Phillips, Hailee McCoy), 6:52.84. 4x400 Relay Midget: 1, Bangor Rec Dept 'A'
(Willow Knapp, Mackenzie Lambert, Emma Hall, Alyssa Elliot), 5:43.10. 2, Red
Riot Track Club 'A' (Krista Bass, Erin Gerbi, Eva White, Ella Allan-Rahill),
5:51.57. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Eliza McPhee


, Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts), 6:15.35. 4x400 Relay Youth: 1,
Blue Hill Peninsula 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:08.34. 2, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Elizabeth Trefts, Grace
Harvey, Lily Moran, Morgan Paradis), 5:20.09. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Lily
Levitsky, Maddy Marks, Camille Kohtala, Brooklyne White), 5:35.84. Triple Jump
Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 25-11. 2, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 22-00. 3,


Izabelle Trefts, Old Town, 18-08. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
32-09.50. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-11. 3, Delaney Veilleux, Old Town,
27-01.50. High Jump Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. 2, Vayda Billings,
Brewer, 2-10. 3, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 2-06. 3, Keira Stearns, Blue Hill,
2-06. High Jump Bantam: 1, Lilyann Geiser, Hampden, 3-04. 2, Kimberly Thompson,
Old Town, 3-02. 3, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 3-00. 3, Emily Jones, Old Town, 3-00.
High Jump Midget: 1, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 3-10. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red
Riots, 3-08. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 3-06. High Jump Youth: 1, Camille
Kohtala, Red Riots, 4-10. 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 4-10. 3, Kalista
Severance, Lincoln, 4-02. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-00.
2, Erica Karp, Brewer, 5-06. Shot Put Mite:


1, Chloe Daigle, Central, 15-00.50. 2, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill, 13-08.50. 3,
Sophie Hepler, Cool Runnings, 11-08. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central,
20-10. 2, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 16-09. 3, Anna Gray, Central, 15-06.50. Shot Put
Midget: 1, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town,
24-02.75. 3, Emilee Cohen, Central, 20-10. Shot Put Youth: 1, Emma Hargreaves,
Old Town, 30-10.50. 2, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 30-09.50.


3, Arianna Gordon, Old Town, 23-06.50. Shot Put 15 yr old: 1. Emma Shearer,
Hampden, 25-4.00.


All-star tourneys


LITTLE LEAGUE


BASEBALL


District 3


Ages 9-10


Saturday, June 28


G1: Holbrook vs. Lincoln, 10 a.m.


G2: Old Town vs. Bronco Little League (Hampden Area), 12:30 p.m.


G3: Bangor East vs. Orrington, 3 p.m.


G4: Millinocket vs. Hermon, 5:30 p.m.


Sunday, June 29


G5: G1 winner vs. Houlton, 10 a.m.


G6: G2 winner vs,. Sebasticook, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G3 winner vs. Bangor West, 3 p.m.


G8: G4 winner vs. Brewer, 5:30 p.m.


Tuesday, July 1


G9: G3 loser vs. G5 loser, 3:30 p.m.


G10: G4 loser vs. G6 loser, 5:30 p.m..


Legion baseball


ZONE 1 SCHEDULE


Sunday, June 29


Bangor at Motor City, 12:30 p.m.


Penquis at Waldo, 12:30 p.m.


Trenton at Hampden, 12:30 p.m.


Monday, June 30


Brewer at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.


Hampden at Waldo, 5:30 p.m.


Trenton at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.


Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Brewer, 7:30 p.m.


Hampden at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.


Trenton at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.


Wednesday, July 2


Brewer at Hampden, 5:30 p.m.


Penquis at Bangor, 5:30 p.m.


Waldo at Motor City, 5:30 p.m.


JUNIOR SCHEDULE


Thursday, June 26


Augusta 6, Bangor 4


Saturday, June 28


Bangor at Oxford Hills (2), high school field, 10 a.m.


Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Fairfield, Lawrence High field, 5:30 p.m.


Golf


MSGA


Junior Tour results


At Woodlands Club


Boys 15-17: Chris deWolf 36-4 --77; Craig Smith 40-40--80; Matthew Caron
37-43--80; Kenny Tuttle 39-42--81; Macarthur Kim 39-42--81; Alexander Spiller
43-42--85; rew Kane 46-42--88; Greg Kalagias 45-45--90; Justin Keaney 44-46--90;
Logan Picard 48-44--92; Jackman Mickiewicz 44-49--93; Alex Whitmore 47-48--95;
Noah Jule 49-47--96; John Witt 48-49--97; Matthew Keaney 49-49--98; Michael
Bryant 47-51--98; Marc Yankowsky 56-48--104; Colby Todd- 53-53--106; Nathaniel
Roberts 46-60--106; Hogan Tracy 58-54--112; A.J. Parisi 67-49--116; Boys 13-14:
Austin Legge 36-45--81; Thomas Higgins 41-43--84; Adam White- 43-43--86; Cole
Anderson 47-41--88; Lucas Roop 49-43--92; Max Altznauer 52-42--94; Reed Mayo
Foehl 49-45--94; Jeremy Baker 52-45--97; Ryan Kaczmarek 51-46--97; Peter Haber
Jr. 52-47--99; Jacob Laplume 49-52--101; Mark Witt 55-51--106; Kyle Cholod
59-49--108; Ben Gosselin 58-52--110; Dana Hinchliffe 55-59--114; Garrett Tracy
56-58--114; Mac Leahy 63-52--115; Kevin Ly 58-58--116; Iain Frumiento
62-55--117; Girls 15-17: Mckenze Coyne 52-57--109; Sydney Caron 62-60--122;
Girls 13-14: Bailey Plourde 45-42--87; Janelle Bryant 48-47--95; Jordan Laplume
57-48--105; 12 and under: Caleb Manuel 44; Armand Ouellette 47; Ethan Haag 49;
Ryan Stimson 54; Owen Himmer 56; William K Ly 58; David Libby 63; Bennett Berg
63; Cole Binette 68; Andrew Libby 68; Liam Crossman 74; Ruby Haylock 76


LOCAL


At Lucerne GC


Senior Scramble -- 1. Dave Robertson, Royce Morrison, Jim Bonzey, Bob Francis
-7; 2. Robin Young, Scott Mac Arthur, Bob Allen -4; 3. Kerry Woodbury, Mark
Johnson, Ralph Alley, Carl Williams -3; 4. Barry Harris, Mike Dore, Russ Black
-2; 5. John Somes, Bob Mc Kenney, Bob Fraser +1; Pins: No. 2 John Somes 9-7, No.
6 Scott Mac Arthur 3-5


At Bangor Muni GC


Good Samaritan Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Kathy Anderson, Sandi Bourgoin, Gloria Attenweiler, Marlene Viger 34;
2. Kathy Constantine, Louise Shindler, Anne Pooler, Marilyn Rice 35; Net: 1.
Shelly Sund, Martha Ward, Bridgit Cayer, Molly Fitzgerald 20; 2. Janet Anderson,
Lill Wark, Ruth Richardson, Judy Collins 22; Pins: No. 4 Kathy Anderson 39-6;
No. 6 Jane Black 3-10; Straight Drive: Bridgit Cayer; Long Drive: Kelli Roy


Bangor Muni GC


Husson University Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Derek Loupin, Rick Sinclair, Alan Anderson, Garlie Gray 55; 2. Jason
Harvey, Rick Pelletier, Butch Arthurs, Jake Arthurs 57; 3. Barry Hobert, Mike
St.Thomas, Jim Greer, Nick Carparelli 58; Net: 1. Jason Rodriguez, Jeff Rankin,
Justin Gauthier, Jason Birmingham 51; 2. Tony Cerbone, Tom Tilley, Floyd Libby,
Gib Coffin 52; 3. Dave Paul, Bill Fernandez, Tom Fernandez, Jason Folsom 54;
Pins: No. 3 Jason Harvey 2-6; No. 6 Tony Cerbone 10-6; No. 11 Barry Hobert 2-6;
No. 16 Barry Hobert 8-1; Straight Drive: Aaron Largay


At Foxcroft GC


Seniors League -- 1. Duce Carleton, Dave Finley, Wayne Beard -3; 2. Bill
Robinson, Dave Porter Sr., Joe Bozzelli, John Schnoer -2; 3. (tie) Erwin
Dellaire, Vic Woodbrey, Pete Caruso Even; 3. Mike Weatherall, Don Moulton, Stan
Higgins, Fred Weston Even; Pins: No. 13 Duce Carleton 16-2; No.15 Joe Bozzelli
11-0


At Hermon Meadow


Friday Night Points -- Blind Draw: 1.Bill O'Rourke, Joel McCluskey +2; 2. Jim
Wilson, Ernie Hein E; 3. Byron Dunbar, Tim McCluskey -1; 4. (tie) Tom Berry,
Brad Holmes -4; Rick Boody, John Trott -4; 5. Al Stuber, Alden Brown -5


At Rocky Knoll GC


Couples League -- Steve and Tracy Jameson, Meg Dexter, Chad Boucher 31; Steve
and Jenny Williams, Gary Chessa, Barbara Baker 33; Don and Michelle Atherton,
Tom Ivers, Barbara Bryant 34 (mc); Pins: No. 12 Don Crowell 4-3, No. 17 Michelle
Atherton 14-3


At Kebo Valley GC


Green Mountain -- Net Skins: 2. Aaron Tibbetts; 3. Keith Clark; 10. Hank
Tibbetts, 11; Bryce Cough, 17; Aaron Tibbetts; 18. Karl Hallett


At Pine Hill GC


R.H Foster


Friday Senior League -- Modified Stableford: 1. Bruce Treworgy, Bob King and
Rick Robertson +20; 2. Mike French, Pat Davis and Darrell Grover +10; 3. Mike
French, Dickie Reed and Bunny Russell -3; 4. Ed Dorion, Ralph Holyoke, Phil
Newbury -6; Pins: No. 5 Darrell Grover 18-4, No.14 Darrell Grover 15-2


At Streamside GC


Friday Night Scramble -- Jimmy Mylen Jr., Francis Larabee, Jim Sieben and Jacob
Gran -5; Pins: No. 4 Greg Reed 3-5, No. 8 Bruce Fields 19-0


Harness racing


BANGOR RACEWAY


Friday Results


FIRST, Pace, $2,800


Northern Regent, Ro Cushing, 8.00 4.20 17.80


Mani Hh, Ga Mosher, 3.80 2.80


Rd Shoeless, Ke Switzer Jr, 2.80


T: 1:57.3. Ex. (3/7) $41.40; Tri. (3/7/1) $69.40


SECOND, Pace, $3,000


Dojea Six Pac, Ga Mosher, 9.20 3.60 4.20


Western Rival, He Campbell, 41.60 10.60


Smackdown Brown, Ke Switzer Jr, 3.00


T: 1:58.1. Ex. (6/8) $309.40; Tri. (6/8/1) $1,661.60; 1st Half DD (3/6) $119.60


THIRD, Pace, $4,000


Conkers Conquest, Ga Mosher, 9.60 4.00 3.40


Daydreamin Lynx, He Campbell, 2.60 2.20


Cage Fighter, Gr Bowden, 3.80


T: 1:55.1. Ex. (8/6) $31.00; Tri. (8/6/3) $339.40


FOURTH, Trot, $3,000


Motown Dreamgirl, Ph Sowers, 2.20 2.20 2.10


Cantabmyway, Pe Gerry, 5.60 4.60


Maine Muscle, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 2:01.1. Ex. (5/3) $16.00; Tri. (5/3/6) $48.40


FIFTH, Pace, $3,000


Ohm Like Clockwork, Ti Hudson, 22.60 9.80 6.80


Western Bay, Ru Lanpher Jr, 12.40 4.00


Vickers Hanover, Aa Hall, 6.80


T: 1:58.2. Ex. (1/7) $444.80; Tri. (1/a/a) $28.40


SIXTH, Pace, $3,000


May Street Bon, Ph Sowers, 2.80 2.40 2.20


Notin Fancy, Ch Shambo, 3.20 2.60


Imperial Art, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 1:59.2. Ex. (4/3) $9.20; Tri. (4/3/5) $12.60


SEVENTH, Pace, $6,000


Catchajolt, Ke Switzer Jr, 5.80 3.40 2.40


Summer Hope, Ch Nye, 9.20 3.60


Country Fresh, Ro Cushing, 2.60


T: 1:56.3. Ex. (1/2) $28.40


Tri. (1/2/4) $63.40; Pick 3 Races (A/4/1) $10.40


EIGHTH, Trot, $10,661


Maine Cast, Mi Cushing, 30.00 12.20 6.20


Star Studded Cast, Ma Athearn, 4.60 6.40


C C C, Ki Ireland, 2.80


T: 2:03.0. Ex. (3/1) $113.00; Tri. (3/1/4) $342.20


NINTH, Trot, $8,000


Sky Keeper, Ke Switzer Jr, 4.40 2.60 2.40


Victory Tax, Ga Mosher, 4.60 3.20


Neverdie, Mi Cushing, 5.60


T: 1:56.4. Ex. (4/6) $28.00; Tri. (4/6/2) $205.40


TENTH, Pace, $2,800


Take The Risk, Ch Nye, 3.80 3.00 2.80


Win The West, Ga Mosher, 5.40 3.00


I'm A Lucky Man, Ro Cushing, 3.60


T: 1:58.3. Ex. (4/3) $15.20; Tri. (4/3/1) $25.60 1st Half Late lDD (4/4) $8.40


Total Handle-$22,877




LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             994 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             June 28, 2014 Saturday

Local sports results for June 27, 2014

LENGTH: 2783 words


Track & field


14 and Under Junior Olympics B Meet


At Brewer


Boys Results: Teams -- Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


(Age groups: Mites 8 & under. Bantams 9-10, Midgets 11-12, Youth 13-14)


80 Hurdles Midget:


1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 15.24. 2, Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 17.97. 3, Jackson


Campbell, Red Riots, 18.06. 100 Hurdles Youth: 1, Liang-kang Lin, Old Town,
18.62. 2, Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 19.77. 3, Peter Blackwell, Bangor,
21.11. 800 Race Walk Midget: 1, Quinn Stabler, Blue Hill, 5:39.43. 2, Tyler
Libby, Hampden, 6:45.78. 100 Dash Mite:


1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 17.87. 2, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 18.37. 3, Ryan
Hallett, Hampden, 18.43. 100 Dash Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 16.25. 2,
Carter Brocato, Bangor, 16.92. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 17.08. 100 Dash
Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 13.93. 2, Logan Geiser, Brewer, 15.54. 3, Jacob
O'Leary, Old Town, 15.83. 100 Dash Youth: 1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 13.29. 2,
Cayden Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 13.66. 3, Ian Wright, Central, 13.74.


100 Dash 15 yr old: 1.Elijah Ames, Central, 13.60. 2. Nathaniel Jerome, Central,
14.65. 400 Dash Mite: 1, Ellis Columber, Blue Hill, 1:29.99. 2, Cole Mazzei,
Bangor, 1:30.10. 3, Ethan Roach, Old Town, 1:32.04. 400 Dash Bantam: 1, Carter
Brocato, Bangor, 1:24.17. 2, Michael Snyer, Bangor, 1:26.24. 3, Ryan Shorey,
Bangor, 1:28.50. 400 Dash Midget: 1, Ben Brook, Bangor, 1:04.27. 2, Bryce Burns,
Central, 1:17.79. 3, Pierce Hall, Central, 1:21.72. 400 Dash Youth: 1, Gabriel
Coffey, Bangor, 1:02.84. 2, Hunter Arguin, Central, 1:04.60. 3, Tony Manev, Red
Riots, 1:05.03. 400 Dash 15 yr olds: 1. Elijah Ames, Central, 1:06.92. 2. Matt
Keresey, Old Town, 1:09. 1500 Run Bantam: 1, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 6:03.93.
2, Evan Smith, Red Riots, 6:45.16. 3, Lucas Allen, Red Riots, 6:49.84. 1500 Run
Midget: 1, Liam Farrell, Red Riots, 6:05.81. 2, Nicholas Cormier, Blue Hill,
6:09.01. 3, Aaron Stanwood, Bangor, 6:24.79. 1500 Run Youth: 1, Gabriel Coffey,
Bangor, 4:53.15. 2, Gavin McDonald, Red Riots, 5:31.60. 3, Jonathan Steelman,
Red Riots, 5:49.38. 1500 Run 15 yr old: 1. Matt Keresey, Old Town, 5:15.44.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Owen Fullerton, Kodiak
Gerken, Corey Atwood, Julian Worster), 1:24.53. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Kameron Stoops, Sean Patrick Lanigan, Ben Arsenault, Jack Brewer), 1:29.80.
4x100 Relay Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'B' (Evan Smith, Brandon Smith,
Cooper White, Lucas Allen), 1:17.93. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Ty Velgouse,
Rowan Oko, Kennen Bean, Ryan St. Peter), 1:21.81. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A'
(Chase Campbell, Colby Farnsworth, Matthew Needham, Jeremiah Treadwell),
1:22.49.


4x100 Relay Midget: 1, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Nicholas Haggerty, Nick
Letourneau, Jacob


O'Leary, Elijah Veilleux), 1:04.47. 2, Central Track Club 'A' (Lucas Ames,
Jackson Kenney, Liam Velgouse, Bryce Burns), 1:06.52. 3, Blue Hill Peninsula 'A'
(Nicholas Cormier, William Larson, Grady Walsh, Kaleb Nevells), 1:10.71. 4x100
Relay Youth: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Hunter Arguin, Elijah Ames(15),
Nathaniel Jerome (15), Ian Wright), 56.43. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Trent
Lick, Michael Livengood, Tony Manev, Jonathan Steelman), 1:00.63. Javelin Mite:
1, Ryan Hallett, Hampden, 61-04. 2, Ty Walker, Old Town, 51-03. 3, Dashel Knapp,
Bangor, 40-00.


Javelin Bantam: 1, Clark Morrison, Blue Hill, 68-06. 2, Nathan Tibbets, Old
Town, 63-04. 3,


Cody Butler, Cool Runnings, 48-01. Javelin Midget: 1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town,
93-01. 2, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 79-01. 3, Jackson Campbell, Red Riots, 79-00.
Javelin Youth:


1, Hunter Arguin, Central, 100-11. 2, Parker Allen, Blue Hill, 94-04. 3, Trent
Lick, Red Riots, 79-05. Long Jump Mite: 1, Cole Allen, Pittsfield, 7-10.50. 2,
Tyler Wilkinson, Brewer, 7-10. 3,


Elijah Proudfoot, Old Town, 7-09.50. Long Jump Bantam: 1, Carter Brocato,
Bangor, 10-11.75. 2, James Vandehei, Lincoln, 10-05.25. 3, Clark Morrison, Blue
Hill, 9-03. Long Jump Midget:


1, Elijah Veilleux, Old Town, 12-04. 2, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 11-11. 3,
Nicholas Haggerty, Old Town, 11-03.75. Long Jump Youth: 1, Cayden
Spencer-Thompson, Lincoln, 16-11. 2, Kyle Smith, Old Town, 14-09.50. 3, Gavin
Pelkey, Lincoln, 13-07.50. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Matt Keresey Old Town, 6-00.
Discus Midget: 1, Nathan Regan, Old Town, 60-06. 2, Austin Proudfoot, Old Town,
53-01. 3, Aidan Stearns, Blue Hill, 50-06. Discus Youth: 1, Kyle Smith, Old
Town, 86-10. 2, CJ Iverson, Old Town, 81-04. 3, Cameron Tower, Red Riots, 79-11.


Discus 15-yr olds: 1. Nathaniel Jerome, Central, 58-11. Pole Vault 15 yr old: 1.
Matt Keresey, Old Town, 6-0.


Girls Results: Teams: Bangor Rec, Brewer Rec, Blue Hill Peninsula,


Central TC, Cool Runnings Track, Hampden Rec, Lincoln Rec, Old Town TC,


Red Riot (Orono) TC, Pittsfield TC.


800 Race Walk Mite: 1, Addie Trefts, Old Town, 7:28.34. 800 Race Walk Bantam: 1,
Libby Frazee, Bangor, 5:07.85. 2, Megan Brewer, Red Riots, 5:10.54. 3, Aliyah
Goldsmith, Central, 5:58.44. 80 Hurdles Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central,
16.57. 2, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 17.22. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 18.73. 100
Hurdles Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 18.75. 2, Eliza Broughton, Blue
Hill, 20.37. 3, Susanna Jakub, Blue Hill, 21.36. 100 Hurdles 15 yr old: 1. Emma
Shearer, Hampden, 19.56. 2. Audrey Duplissee, Brewer, 21.12.


200 Dash Mite: 1, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 39.09. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
39.24. 3, Vayda


Billings, Brewer, 40.37. 200 Dash Bantam: 1, Allie Cameron, Bangor, 33.19. 2,
Esmae Stockley, Lincoln, 34.30. 3, Bayley Casavant, Central, 35.77. 200 Dash
Midget: 1, McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 32.00. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 32.28.
3, Krista Bass, Red Riots, 33.12.


200 Dash Youth: 1, Mykayla Hoggard, Bangor, 30.33. 2, Ivy Manner-Wheelden, Blue
Hill, 30.99.


3, Morgan Paradis, Old Town, 31.01. 200 Dash 15 yr old: 1. Audrey Duplissee,
Brewer, 24.12.


800 Run Mite: 1, Ruth White, Red Riots, 3:14.07. 2, Nora Schuurman, Lincoln,
3:18.62. 3,


Vayda Billings, Brewer, 3:34.37. 800 Run Bantam: 1, Nora White, Red Riots,
3:16.68. 2, Jasmine Knapp, Bangor, 3:23.20. 3, Ashley Talcove, Old Town,
3:29.33. 800 Run Midget:


1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 2:57.44. 2, Alyssa Elliot, Bangor, 3:02.81. 3,
McKenzie Lawrence, Central, 3:09.19. 800 Run Youth: 1, Camille Kohtala, Red
Riots, 2:51.10. 2, Mary Richardson, Blue Hill, 2:53.03. 3, Tess Williamson, Blue
Hill, 3:01.88. 3000 Run Midget: 1, Lucy Schuurman, Lincoln, 12:43.71. 2, Kaya
Lolar, Old Town, 14:18.17. 3000 Run Youth: 1, Helen Shearer, Hampden, 12:30.76.
2, Audree O'Meara, Old Town, 12:40.17. 3, Usha Stockley, Lincoln, 15:19.19.
4x100 Relay Mite: 1, Central Track Club 'A' (Kamryn Tyrrell, Kacy Tyrrell,
Natalie Giles, Kendall Hanson), 1:24.44. 2, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Brooke
Wentworth, Ruth


White, Ayda Sonnenberg, Solece Campbell), 1:30.08. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A'
(Ava Harvey, Lily Heitmann, Katie Seger, Lucy Veilleux), 1:55.13. 4x400 Relay
Bantam: 1, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Nora White, Laura Kirkpatrick, Alexandria
Hutchison, Megan Brewer), 6:38.16. 2, Lincoln Rec. Track and Field 'A' (Julianna
Hesseltine, Laura Butterfield, Isabelle Gerken, Esmae Stockley), 6:44.37. 3, Old
Town Track Club 'A' (Lillianna Powers, Emma Trefts, Sadie


Phillips, Hailee McCoy), 6:52.84. 4x400 Relay Midget: 1, Bangor Rec Dept 'A'
(Willow Knapp, Mackenzie Lambert, Emma Hall, Alyssa Elliot), 5:43.10. 2, Red
Riot Track Club 'A' (Krista Bass, Erin Gerbi, Eva White, Ella Allan-Rahill),
5:51.57. 3, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Eliza McPhee


, Kaya Lolar, Mallie O'Meara, Izabelle Trefts), 6:15.35. 4x400 Relay Youth: 1,
Blue Hill Peninsula 'A' (Eliza Broughton, Susanna Jakub, Caroline Looke, Mary
Richardson), 5:08.34. 2, Old Town Track Club 'A' (Elizabeth Trefts, Grace
Harvey, Lily Moran, Morgan Paradis), 5:20.09. 3, Red Riot Track Club 'A' (Lily
Levitsky, Maddy Marks, Camille Kohtala, Brooklyne White), 5:35.84. Triple Jump
Midget: 1, Hannah Dunn, Brewer, 25-11. 2, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 22-00. 3,


Izabelle Trefts, Old Town, 18-08. Triple Jump Youth: 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town,
32-09.50. 2, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 31-11. 3, Delaney Veilleux, Old Town,
27-01.50. High Jump Mite: 1, Kacy Tyrrell, Central, 3-00. 2, Vayda Billings,
Brewer, 2-10. 3, Kamryn Tyrrell, Central, 2-06. 3, Keira Stearns, Blue Hill,
2-06. High Jump Bantam: 1, Lilyann Geiser, Hampden, 3-04. 2, Kimberly Thompson,
Old Town, 3-02. 3, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 3-00. 3, Emily Jones, Old Town, 3-00.
High Jump Midget: 1, Teagan Blackie, Old Town, 3-10. 2, Hannah Batchelder, Red
Riots, 3-08. 3, Mackenzie Lambert, Bangor, 3-06. High Jump Youth: 1, Camille
Kohtala, Red Riots, 4-10. 1, McKenna Smith, Old Town, 4-10. 3, Kalista
Severance, Lincoln, 4-02. Pole Vault Youth: 1, Oliviah Damboise, Old Town, 6-00.
2, Erica Karp, Brewer, 5-06. Shot Put Mite:


1, Chloe Daigle, Central, 15-00.50. 2, Maranda Pert, Blue Hill, 13-08.50. 3,
Sophie Hepler, Cool Runnings, 11-08. Shot Put Bantam: 1, Nevaeh Daigle, Central,
20-10. 2, Libby Frazee, Bangor, 16-09. 3, Anna Gray, Central, 15-06.50. Shot Put
Midget: 1, Claudia Damboise, Old Town, 24-10. 2, Teagan Blackie, Old Town,
24-02.75. 3, Emilee Cohen, Central, 20-10. Shot Put Youth: 1, Emma Hargreaves,
Old Town, 30-10.50. 2, Andrea Rawson, Old Town, 30-09.50.


3, Arianna Gordon, Old Town, 23-06.50. Shot Put 15 yr old: 1. Emma Shearer,
Hampden, 25-4.00.


All-star tourneys


LITTLE LEAGUE


BASEBALL


District 3


Ages 9-10


Saturday, June 28


G1: Holbrook vs. Lincoln, 10 a.m.


G2: Old Town vs. Bronco Little League (Hampden Area), 12:30 p.m.


G3: Bangor East vs. Orrington, 3 p.m.


G4: Millinocket vs. Hermon, 5:30 p.m.


Sunday, June 29


G5: G1 winner vs. Houlton, 10 a.m.


G6: G2 winner vs,. Sebasticook, 12:30 p.m.


G7: G3 winner vs. Bangor West, 3 p.m.


G8: G4 winner vs. Brewer, 5:30 p.m.


Tuesday, July 1


G9: G3 loser vs. G5 loser, 3:30 p.m.


G10: G4 loser vs. G6 loser, 5:30 p.m..


Legion baseball


ZONE 1 SCHEDULE


Sunday, June 29


Bangor at Motor City, 12:30 p.m.


Penquis at Waldo, 12:30 p.m.


Trenton at Hampden, 12:30 p.m.


Monday, June 30


Brewer at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.


Hampden at Waldo, 5:30 p.m.


Trenton at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.


Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Brewer, 7:30 p.m.


Hampden at Motor City, 7:30 p.m.


Trenton at Penquis, 5:30 p.m.


Wednesday, July 2


Brewer at Hampden, 5:30 p.m.


Penquis at Bangor, 5:30 p.m.


Waldo at Motor City, 5:30 p.m.


JUNIOR SCHEDULE


Thursday, June 26


Augusta 6, Bangor 4


Saturday, June 28


Bangor at Oxford Hills (2), high school field, 10 a.m.


Tuesday, July 1


Bangor at Fairfield, Lawrence High field, 5:30 p.m.


Golf


MSGA


Junior Tour results


At Woodlands Club


Boys 15-17: Chris deWolf 36-4 --77; Craig Smith 40-40--80; Matthew Caron
37-43--80; Kenny Tuttle 39-42--81; Macarthur Kim 39-42--81; Alexander Spiller
43-42--85; rew Kane 46-42--88; Greg Kalagias 45-45--90; Justin Keaney 44-46--90;
Logan Picard 48-44--92; Jackman Mickiewicz 44-49--93; Alex Whitmore 47-48--95;
Noah Jule 49-47--96; John Witt 48-49--97; Matthew Keaney 49-49--98; Michael
Bryant 47-51--98; Marc Yankowsky 56-48--104; Colby Todd- 53-53--106; Nathaniel
Roberts 46-60--106; Hogan Tracy 58-54--112; A.J. Parisi 67-49--116; Boys 13-14:
Austin Legge 36-45--81; Thomas Higgins 41-43--84; Adam White- 43-43--86; Cole
Anderson 47-41--88; Lucas Roop 49-43--92; Max Altznauer 52-42--94; Reed Mayo
Foehl 49-45--94; Jeremy Baker 52-45--97; Ryan Kaczmarek 51-46--97; Peter Haber
Jr. 52-47--99; Jacob Laplume 49-52--101; Mark Witt 55-51--106; Kyle Cholod
59-49--108; Ben Gosselin 58-52--110; Dana Hinchliffe 55-59--114; Garrett Tracy
56-58--114; Mac Leahy 63-52--115; Kevin Ly 58-58--116; Iain Frumiento
62-55--117; Girls 15-17: Mckenze Coyne 52-57--109; Sydney Caron 62-60--122;
Girls 13-14: Bailey Plourde 45-42--87; Janelle Bryant 48-47--95; Jordan Laplume
57-48--105; 12 and under: Caleb Manuel 44; Armand Ouellette 47; Ethan Haag 49;
Ryan Stimson 54; Owen Himmer 56; William K Ly 58; David Libby 63; Bennett Berg
63; Cole Binette 68; Andrew Libby 68; Liam Crossman 74; Ruby Haylock 76


LOCAL


At Lucerne GC


Senior Scramble -- 1. Dave Robertson, Royce Morrison, Jim Bonzey, Bob Francis
-7; 2. Robin Young, Scott Mac Arthur, Bob Allen -4; 3. Kerry Woodbury, Mark
Johnson, Ralph Alley, Carl Williams -3; 4. Barry Harris, Mike Dore, Russ Black
-2; 5. John Somes, Bob Mc Kenney, Bob Fraser +1; Pins: No. 2 John Somes 9-7, No.
6 Scott Mac Arthur 3-5


At Bangor Muni GC


Good Samaritan Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Kathy Anderson, Sandi Bourgoin, Gloria Attenweiler, Marlene Viger 34;
2. Kathy Constantine, Louise Shindler, Anne Pooler, Marilyn Rice 35; Net: 1.
Shelly Sund, Martha Ward, Bridgit Cayer, Molly Fitzgerald 20; 2. Janet Anderson,
Lill Wark, Ruth Richardson, Judy Collins 22; Pins: No. 4 Kathy Anderson 39-6;
No. 6 Jane Black 3-10; Straight Drive: Bridgit Cayer; Long Drive: Kelli Roy


Bangor Muni GC


Husson University Golf Tournament


Gross: 1. Derek Loupin, Rick Sinclair, Alan Anderson, Garlie Gray 55; 2. Jason
Harvey, Rick Pelletier, Butch Arthurs, Jake Arthurs 57; 3. Barry Hobert, Mike
St.Thomas, Jim Greer, Nick Carparelli 58; Net: 1. Jason Rodriguez, Jeff Rankin,
Justin Gauthier, Jason Birmingham 51; 2. Tony Cerbone, Tom Tilley, Floyd Libby,
Gib Coffin 52; 3. Dave Paul, Bill Fernandez, Tom Fernandez, Jason Folsom 54;
Pins: No. 3 Jason Harvey 2-6; No. 6 Tony Cerbone 10-6; No. 11 Barry Hobert 2-6;
No. 16 Barry Hobert 8-1; Straight Drive: Aaron Largay


At Foxcroft GC


Seniors League -- 1. Duce Carleton, Dave Finley, Wayne Beard -3; 2. Bill
Robinson, Dave Porter Sr., Joe Bozzelli, John Schnoer -2; 3. (tie) Erwin
Dellaire, Vic Woodbrey, Pete Caruso Even; 3. Mike Weatherall, Don Moulton, Stan
Higgins, Fred Weston Even; Pins: No. 13 Duce Carleton 16-2; No.15 Joe Bozzelli
11-0


At Hermon Meadow


Friday Night Points -- Blind Draw: 1.Bill O'Rourke, Joel McCluskey +2; 2. Jim
Wilson, Ernie Hein E; 3. Byron Dunbar, Tim McCluskey -1; 4. (tie) Tom Berry,
Brad Holmes -4; Rick Boody, John Trott -4; 5. Al Stuber, Alden Brown -5


At Rocky Knoll GC


Couples League -- Steve and Tracy Jameson, Meg Dexter, Chad Boucher 31; Steve
and Jenny Williams, Gary Chessa, Barbara Baker 33; Don and Michelle Atherton,
Tom Ivers, Barbara Bryant 34 (mc); Pins: No. 12 Don Crowell 4-3, No. 17 Michelle
Atherton 14-3


At Kebo Valley GC


Green Mountain -- Net Skins: 2. Aaron Tibbetts; 3. Keith Clark; 10. Hank
Tibbetts, 11; Bryce Cough, 17; Aaron Tibbetts; 18. Karl Hallett


At Pine Hill GC


R.H Foster


Friday Senior League -- Modified Stableford: 1. Bruce Treworgy, Bob King and
Rick Robertson +20; 2. Mike French, Pat Davis and Darrell Grover +10; 3. Mike
French, Dickie Reed and Bunny Russell -3; 4. Ed Dorion, Ralph Holyoke, Phil
Newbury -6; Pins: No. 5 Darrell Grover 18-4, No.14 Darrell Grover 15-2


At Streamside GC


Friday Night Scramble -- Jimmy Mylen Jr., Francis Larabee, Jim Sieben and Jacob
Gran -5; Pins: No. 4 Greg Reed 3-5, No. 8 Bruce Fields 19-0


Harness racing


BANGOR RACEWAY


Friday Results


FIRST, Pace, $2,800


Northern Regent, Ro Cushing, 8.00 4.20 17.80


Mani Hh, Ga Mosher, 3.80 2.80


Rd Shoeless, Ke Switzer Jr, 2.80


T: 1:57.3. Ex. (3/7) $41.40; Tri. (3/7/1) $69.40


SECOND, Pace, $3,000


Dojea Six Pac, Ga Mosher, 9.20 3.60 4.20


Western Rival, He Campbell, 41.60 10.60


Smackdown Brown, Ke Switzer Jr, 3.00


T: 1:58.1. Ex. (6/8) $309.40; Tri. (6/8/1) $1,661.60; 1st Half DD (3/6) $119.60


THIRD, Pace, $4,000


Conkers Conquest, Ga Mosher, 9.60 4.00 3.40


Daydreamin Lynx, He Campbell, 2.60 2.20


Cage Fighter, Gr Bowden, 3.80


T: 1:55.1. Ex. (8/6) $31.00; Tri. (8/6/3) $339.40


FOURTH, Trot, $3,000


Motown Dreamgirl, Ph Sowers, 2.20 2.20 2.10


Cantabmyway, Pe Gerry, 5.60 4.60


Maine Muscle, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 2:01.1. Ex. (5/3) $16.00; Tri. (5/3/6) $48.40


FIFTH, Pace, $3,000


Ohm Like Clockwork, Ti Hudson, 22.60 9.80 6.80


Western Bay, Ru Lanpher Jr, 12.40 4.00


Vickers Hanover, Aa Hall, 6.80


T: 1:58.2. Ex. (1/7) $444.80; Tri. (1/a/a) $28.40


SIXTH, Pace, $3,000


May Street Bon, Ph Sowers, 2.80 2.40 2.20


Notin Fancy, Ch Shambo, 3.20 2.60


Imperial Art, An Verruso, 3.00


T: 1:59.2. Ex. (4/3) $9.20; Tri. (4/3/5) $12.60


SEVENTH, Pace, $6,000


Catchajolt, Ke Switzer Jr, 5.80 3.40 2.40


Summer Hope, Ch Nye, 9.20 3.60


Country Fresh, Ro Cushing, 2.60


T: 1:56.3. Ex. (1/2) $28.40


Tri. (1/2/4) $63.40; Pick 3 Races (A/4/1) $10.40


EIGHTH, Trot, $10,661


Maine Cast, Mi Cushing, 30.00 12.20 6.20


Star Studded Cast, Ma Athearn, 4.60 6.40


C C C, Ki Ireland, 2.80


T: 2:03.0. Ex. (3/1) $113.00; Tri. (3/1/4) $342.20


NINTH, Trot, $8,000


Sky Keeper, Ke Switzer Jr, 4.40 2.60 2.40


Victory Tax, Ga Mosher, 4.60 3.20


Neverdie, Mi Cushing, 5.60


T: 1:56.4. Ex. (4/6) $28.00; Tri. (4/6/2) $205.40


TENTH, Pace, $2,800


Take The Risk, Ch Nye, 3.80 3.00 2.80


Win The West, Ga Mosher, 5.40 3.00


I'm A Lucky Man, Ro Cushing, 3.60


T: 1:58.3. Ex. (4/3) $15.20; Tri. (4/3/1) $25.60 1st Half Late lDD (4/4) $8.40


Total Handle-$22,877




LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Bangor Daily News


                             995 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Two charged in riot stabbing; Further charges recommended; independent
investigation launched

BYLINE: Kim Bolan, Postmedia News

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 561  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Two men have been charged in relation to a stabbing that took place during the
June 15 Stanley Cup riot, Vancouver Police announced Monday.

Charges have been recommended against another six people, ranging from mischief
and participation in a riot to assaulting a police officer. None of the suspects
have previous criminal histories.

Also Monday, Premier Christy Clark announced that an independent panel will
investigate the riot. It is to report to the province by Aug. 31 and its
findings will be made public.

Among other things, the panel will begin by looking at the Stanley Cup riot of
1994, the availability of liquor to the thousands that had gathered in the
streets to watch the final game and what needs to be done to avoid a repetition
of riots at future public events.

"Shameful acts like those seen around the world demand a tough, independent and
critical eye - and that's exactly what we expect this review to deliver," said
Solicitor General Shirley Bond in a statement. "It must look back, given the
events 17 years before and the many reviews that followed. And it must look
forward, to ensure Vancouver reclaims its place on the world stage as a vibrant,
safe city in which to celebrate, no matter the nature of the event or the size
of the crowd."

Burnaby, B.C. resident Edgar Ricardo Garcia, 20, has been charged with
aggravated assault after two men were stabbed. And Calgary resident Joshua Lyle
Evans, 27, has been charged with possessing a weapon dangerous to the public
peace in the same incident.

Among the others expected to go to court for their riot conduct are a young man
from Ladner accused of vandalizing a pickup truck, a 19-year-old accused of
looting a purse from the Bay and 17-year-old Nathan Kotylak, accused in trying
to set a police car ablaze.

The newly established Integrated Riot Investigation Team is working its way
through thousands of photographs and video images from the riot to identify
those who committed criminal acts.

Vancouver Police are urging those who were caught in the act to come forward and
turn themselves in.

"If you come in voluntarily you can do so discreetly and at a time that is
convenient for you," police chief Jim Chu said Monday. "If you wait until we
find you - and we will find you - we will arrest you in a public manner suitable
to the public crimes you have committed."

Chu said the investigation has confirmed what police initially said - that
anarchists and criminals started the trouble, while others without criminal
histories soon joined in.

"Based on the best information we had the following morning, we stated that the
instigators among the mob were 'criminals, anarchists and thugs who came to town
bent on destruction and mayhem' regardless of the outcome of the game," Chu
said.

"While we are still standing by that observation about the instigators, we are
learning that most of the people that joined in the riot and that have now been
charged represent a wider spectrum of young people, many of whom do not have
criminal records."

He said the suspects come from across B.C.'s Lower Mainland and beyond and that
the task force will include police from across those jurisdictions.

By Monday morning, 117 had been arrested - mostly the night of the riot for
breach of the peace. So far about a dozen people have turned themselves in to
the VPD and three to other police agencies, Chu said.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Postmedia News, Mark Van Manen; Protesters taunt Vancouver police on
Granville Street during the riots.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                             996 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                RedEye, Chicago

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            September 5, 2014 Friday

Riot Fest releases daily schedule; announces Pussy Riot panel w/Henry Rollins

BYLINE: Ernest Wilkins, RedEye, Chicago

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT NEWS

LENGTH: 783 words


Sept. 05--The Riot Fest daily schedule has been announced and those suffering
from indecisiveness now have another thing to worry about. We've already known
how stacked the lineup is, now there's confirmation at the staggering amount of
greatness on deck. Added to that greatness is today's lineup is a panel
discussion taking place on Friday that includes Nadya Tolokonnikova (Pussy Riot
), Masha Alekhina (Pussy Riot), Greg Graffin (Bad Religion, Vocalist/Professor
or Geology at UCLA), Tim McIlrath (Rise Against), Marcelle Karp
(writer/activist) and  Michael A. Petryshyn (Riot Fest, Founder) in what they're
calling "a collective of progressive minds to discuss sociopolitical movements,
music and art, and the cross-pollination between the two that generates changes
in the traditional soliloquy of thought and action."

Below is the full Riot Fest 2014 lineup by day (--indicates RedEye Sound Board
picks)

Friday, September 12:

Riot Stage

3-3:30 PM: Black Joe Lewis & the Honeybears --4-4:45 PM: Circa Survive

5:15-6 PM: Failure

7-7:45 PM: Gogol Bordello --8:45-10 PM: Jane's Addiction

Roots Stage

3:30-4 PM: Title Fight

4:45-5:15 PM: Stiff Little Fingers

6-7 PM: NOFX --7:45-8:45 PM: The Offspring --

Rock Stage

4-4:40 PM: All

5-5:45 PM: Senses Fail

7:30-8:15 PM: Murder City Devils

9-10 PM: Rise Against --

Riot Fest Speaks Stage

5:45-7 PM: Pussy Riot panel moderated by Henry Rollins --

Rebel Stage

4:15-5 PM: Gwar --5:30-6:15 PM: Clutch

7-7:45: Mastodon

8:45-9:45 PM: Slayer --

Rise Stage

3:45-4:15 PM: Ur Lineup Sux, Bro

5-5:30 PM: Emarosa

6:15-7 PM: We Came as Romans

7:45-8:45 PM: Of Mice & Men

Rev Stage

3-3:30 PM: Somos

4-4:30 PM: Plague Vendor

5-5:30 PM: Hotelier

6-6:30 PM: From Indian Lakes

7-7:30 PM: Pianos Become the Teeth

8-8:30 PM: Pity Sex

The Radicals

3:30-4 PM: Vamos! --4:30-5 PM: Baby Baby

5:30-6 PM: Wounds

6:30-7 PM: Radkey

7:30-8 PM: Red City Radio

Saturday, September 13:

Riot Stage

12:05-12:35 PM: Pizza Underground

1:05-1:50 PM: Orwells --2:30-3:15 PM: Dandy Warhols

4-4:45 PM: Die Antwoord

5:30-6:15 PM: Paul Weller

7:15-8 PM: Metric --9-10 PM: The National --

Roots Stage

12:35-1:05 PM: Wavves

1:55-2:40 PM: Tokyo Police Club --3:15-4 PM: City & Colour

4:45-5:30 PM: Afghan Whigs

6:15-7:15 PM: Wu-Tang Clan --8-9 PM: Flaming Lips

Rock Stage

12-12:30 PM: Frank Iero

1-1:45 PM: RX Bandits

2:15-3 PM: Streetlight Manifesto

3:30-4:15 PM: Saosin with Anthony Green

4:45-5:30 PM: Say Anything

6-6:45 PM: Dashboard Confessional

7:15-8:15 PM: The Used --8:45-9:45 PM: Taking Back Sunday --

Rebel Stage

1:10 PM-1:40 PM: Samiam

2:20-2:50 PM: Buzzcocks

3:45-4:25 PM: Face to Face

5:10-5:55 PM: Me First & the Gimme Gimmes

6:55-7:55 PM: Cock Sparrer

8:55-9:55 PM: Samhain

Rise Stage

7:55-8:55 PM: Descendents --5:55-6:55 PM: Get Up Kids

4:25-5:10 PM: Mighty Mighty Bosstones

2:50-3:55 PM: Television

1:40-2:20 PM: 7 Seconds

12:25-1:10 PM: Anti-Flag --

Rev Stage

12-12:30 PM: Picturebooks

1-1:30 PM: Rose's Pawn Shop

2-2:30 PM: The Bots

3-3:30 PM: The World Is a Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid to Die

4-4:30 PM: Jessica Hernandez & the Deltas

5-5:30 PM: Lemuria

6-6:30 PM: Nostalghia

7-7:30 PM: Skaters

8-8:30 PM: Citizen

The Radicals

11:45-12:15 PM: Buffalo Rodeo

12:45-1:15 PM: Dan Wade

1:45-2:15 PM: Ex Friends

2:45-3:15 PM: Broncho

3:45-4:15 PM: American Scene

4:45-5:15 PM: Restorations

5:45-6:15 PM: Crombies

6:45-7:15 PM: Unlikely Candidates

Sunday, September 14:

Riot Stage

1:45-2:15 PM: Kurt Vile & the Violators --2:55-3:35 PM: Superchunk

4:30-5:15 PM: Tegan and Sara --6-6:45 PM: Patti Smith

7:45-10 PM: The Cure --

Roots Stage

11:45-12:30 PM: Menzingers

1-1:45 PM: Bouncing Souls

2:15-2:55 PM: Billy Bragg

3:35-4:30 PM: Naked Raygun --5:15-6 PM: Dropkick Murphys

6:45-7:45 PM: Social Distortion --

Rock Stage

1:15-1:45 PM: Only Crime

2:15-3 PM: Silverstein

3:30-4:15 PM: La Dispute

4:45-5:30 PM: Mineral

6-6:45 PM: Blue Meanies

7:15-8:15 PM: New Found Glory --8:45-9:45 PM: Bring Me the Horizon

Rebel Stage

1:10-1:40 PM: Front Bottoms

2:10-3 PM: The Hold Steady

3:45-4:25 PM: Motion City Soundtrack --5:05-5:55 PM: Hot Snakes

6:40-7:40 PM: Cheap Trick

8:40-9:55 PM: Weezer --

Rise Stage

12:40-1:10 PM: Laura Stevenson

1:40-2:10 PM: Whigs

3-3:45 PM: Andrew W.K. --4:20-5:05 PM: Lucero

5:55-6:40 PM: Mudhoney

7:40-8:40 PM: Primus

Rev Stage

12-12:30 PM: Chumped

1-1:30 PM: Survay Says!

2-2:30 PM: Pup --3-3:30 PM: Tiny Moving Parts

4-4:30 PM: Cerebral Ballzy

5-5:30 PM: Dads

6-6:30 PM: Modern Baseball

7-7:30 PM: I Am the Avalanche

The Radicals

11:30-12 PM: Grizzled Mighty

12:30-1 PM: Mutts

1:30-2 PM: Team Spirit

2:30-3 PM: Netherfriends

3:30-4 PM: Lucki Ecks

4:30-5 PM: ShowYouSuck --5:30-6 PM: My Gold Mask

6:30-7 PM: In the Valley Below

7:30-8 PM: Archie Powell & the Exports *

___ (c)2014 RedEye (Chicago) Visit RedEye (Chicago) at www.redeyechicago.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140905-1RC-Riot-Fest-releases-daily-schedule-announces-Pussy-Riot
-panel-w-Henry-Rollins-0905-20140905

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1RC


                                 Copyright 2014


                             997 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                 June 24, 2014

China's 1st campus anti-terror group established in Chengdu

LENGTH: 499  words


China's first "collegiate anti-terrorism riot squad" has been established at the
Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College in Sichuan province.

China's first "collegiate anti-terrorism riot squad" has been established at the
Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College in Sichuan province, the Western China
Metropolis Daily reports.

The squad has been divided into three teams: Shield Team against riots, Patrol
Team to inspect the campus and collect intelligence, and Special Team to conduct
sudden attacks in case of emergency, according to Gu Yingzhi, the head of the
college.

Many cities in China have taken actions to prevent terrorist attacks following
several riots that had happened recently.

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014. The squad
consists of 80 boys and 40 girls, all of whom are students of the college.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad demonstrate fighting
skillsin an anti-terror drill on the campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel
College on June 20, 2014. [Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad take part in an anti-terror
drill on the campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20,
2014. [Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             998 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                 June 24, 2014

China's 1st campus anti-terror group established in Chengdu

LENGTH: 499  words


China's first "collegiate anti-terrorism riot squad" has been established at the
Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College in Sichuan province.

China's first "collegiate anti-terrorism riot squad" has been established at the
Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College in Sichuan province, the Western China
Metropolis Daily reports.

The squad has been divided into three teams: Shield Team against riots, Patrol
Team to inspect the campus and collect intelligence, and Special Team to conduct
sudden attacks in case of emergency, according to Gu Yingzhi, the head of the
college.

Many cities in China have taken actions to prevent terrorist attacks following
several riots that had happened recently.

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014. The squad
consists of 80 boys and 40 girls, all of whom are students of the college.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad demonstrate fighting
skillsin an anti-terror drill on the campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel
College on June 20, 2014. [Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad take part in an anti-terror
drill on the campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20,
2014. [Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             999 of 1000 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday

China's 1st campus anti-terror group established in Chengdu

LENGTH: 499  words


China's first "collegiate anti-terrorism riot squad" has been established at the
Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College in Sichuan province.

China's first "collegiate anti-terrorism riot squad" has been established at the
Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College in Sichuan province, the Western China
Metropolis Daily reports.

The squad has been divided into three teams: Shield Team against riots, Patrol
Team to inspect the campus and collect intelligence, and Special Team to conduct
sudden attacks in case of emergency, according to Gu Yingzhi, the head of the
college.

Many cities in China have taken actions to prevent terrorist attacks following
several riots that had happened recently.

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014. The squad
consists of 80 boys and 40 girls, all of whom are students of the college.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad conducts a drill on the
campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20, 2014.
[Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad demonstrate fighting
skillsin an anti-terror drill on the campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel
College on June 20, 2014. [Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

China's first college anti-terrorism and riot squad take part in an anti-terror
drill on the campus of Chengdu East Star Airlines Travel College on June 20,
2014. [Photo/chinanews.com]

College students receive anti-terror training in Beijing

Regional body to establish anti-terror unit

Beijing flexes police power for anti-terror

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1000 of 1000 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 24, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BRINGING THE 'NOIZE,' AGAIN;
QUIET RIOT KEEPS THE PARTY GOING WITH THAT '80S HEAVY METAL MENTALITY

BYLINE: JIM HARRINGTON, Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: EYE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1007 words


Don't believe the calendar on the wall. The 1980s are back in a big way.

Young buzz bands such as the Futureheads, Franz Ferdinand, Bloc Party and the
Killers definitely draw inspiration from that decade's New Wave movement. The
reunited Motley Crue is making one of this year's biggest tours. And, thanks to
such popular nostalgia shows as "I Love the '80s" and "Behind the Music," TV
viewers are just as likely to see Def Leppard as they are Dave Matthews when
they flip on VH1.

Quiet Riot, Cinderella and Ratt will benefit from the renewed interest in all
things '80s when the trio of fallen hair-metal icons brings the 2005 Rock Never
Stops Tour to Paramount's Great America on Saturday. Firehouse, a pop-metal act
that scored a handful of hit singles in the early '90s, is also on the bill.

The common perception is that all four acts slipped into complete oblivion after
MTV made the switch from Poison to Pearl Jam and that only by the grace of VH1
has this music managed once again to garner an audience. That view, according to
one member of Quiet Riot, is flat-out wrong.

"The interest in this type of music has been there all along," says 50-year-old
drummer Frankie Banali by cell phone from his car in Los Angeles. "For instance,
Quiet Riot has been touring solid since the early '90s. We wouldn't be able to
do that and earn a living and still enjoy it and have fun if people weren't
coming out to the show. The difference now is that some media outlets like VH1
and certain radio stations are paying a little more attention to it. But the
interest has always been there. It's just that the media hasn't always been
there."

There probably always will be a place for party acts, whether it's a wacky bunch
such as the B-52's creating soundtracks for beach barbecues or a flamboyant
rocker like Sammy Hagar offering plenty of reasons not to drive at 55. They are
occasionally pushed to the side to make room for "serious rock/pop artists" such
as Kurt Cobain and Eddie Vedder, but they don't disappear entirely. Quiet Riot,
if nothing else, is a true party band.

"It's not a band based on rage or anger," says 49-year-old vocalist Kevin DuBrow
from his home in Las Vegas. "It's a band based on the celebration of life. It's
a form of escapism. A lot of bands today are based on negativity. We are based
on being positive."

The band certainly has had to remain positive over the years. During its 30-year
career, Quiet Riot has experienced more ups, downs and abrupt changes in
direction than a roller coaster at Great America can deliver.

"There have been a lot of different versions of Quiet Riot," Banali says. "The
first version of Quiet Riot, which, of course, included the late, great
guitarist Randy Rhoads, split up in the late '70s. What we ended up calling the
'Metal Health' version of the band began in 1982, and that had constant
personnel changes from about '85 all the way through '89. Then there was no
Quiet Riot from that point until about 1992. I rejoined the band in 1993; so
I've been back in the band now longer than I was in it originally."

Quiet Riot's first incarnation consisted of DuBrow, Rhoads, drummer Drew Forsyth
and bassist Kelli Garni. The quartet first made noise in L.A. rock clubs in 1975
and eventually released two modestly popular records by the decade's end. Things
seemed to be progressing on target for Quiet Riot, until Rhoads unexpectedly
handed in his resignation and joined up with Ozzy Osbourne. (Rhoads became a
superstar sideman with the former Black Sabbathvocalist. He died in a plane
crash in 1982.)

Without Rhoads, whose guitar work was the heart and soul of those early
releases, Quiet Riot called it quits for a few years, and DuBrow led a band
under his own name. That act, which included Banali on drums, eventually took
back the Quiet Riot name and recorded 1983's seminal "Metal Health."

After a somewhat slow start, the album became a runaway hit that topped the
Billboard pop charts and eventually sold 6 million copies. The title track and
"Cum on Feel the Noize," a cover of an old Slade song, made the band an MTV
darling and dominated rock radio for years. Quiet Riot quickly went from being
an opening act to selling out major arenas across the country and performing
before more than 350,000 fans at the US Festival in 1983.

The following year, the group released "Condition Critical," which marked the
beginning of a downward spiral in popularity that continued until the band
finally hung it up after 1988's "Quiet Riot" CD (its second self-named release).
The breakup, however, didn't last long, and the group returned in 1993 with
"Terrified."

Since then, Quiet Riot -- which now consists of DuBrow, Banali, bassist Chuck
Wright and guitarist Alex Grossi -- has been steadily releasing new music. The
band's latest album of new material was 2001's "Guilty Pleasures."

"The reason we continue to write new material and put out new records certainly
isn't because we expect to top the charts and sell a lot of records," Banali
says. "We do it because it's healthy. We do it because we still enjoy playing
music. We do it because we still enjoy being creative and writing new material."

Quiet Riot will enter the studio immediately after the Rock Never Stops Tour to
start work on a new album. The CD, scheduled for release in 2006, will feature
an entirely new batch of songs and the same old bang-your-head sound.

"We are not trying to reinvent ourselves," DuBrow says, "but I think, unless you
want to become something like the Monkees or Paul Revere and the Raiders, you
need to at least internally continue to be creative. That's really important, if
just for your own sanity and to keep in mind why you started doing this."
Rock Never Stops Tour
With Quiet Riot, Cinderella,
Ratt and Firehouse
Where: Redwood Amphitheater, Paramount's Great America, 4701 Great America
Parkway, Santa Clara
When: 7 p.m. Saturday
Tickets: $19.99-$49.99 includes park admission.
Call: (408) 998-8497, or see www.ticketmaster.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: HANDS ON PRODUCTION LLC
Quiet Riot's current personnel, from left: Alex Grossi, Frankie Banali, Kevin
DuBrow, Chuck Wright.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
