
                             549 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistanis Take to Streets Over U.S. Strikes on Afghanistan

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anger over the American air strikes on Afghanistan swept
Pakistan yesterday. In Peshawar, a demonstrator caught fire as an American flag
went up in flames. The protester was taken to a hospital. The police fired tear
gas to control the crowds, some of which numbered up to 1,000. There were
larger, more violent protests in Quetta. Page B9. (Ruth Fremson/The New York
Times)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             550 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: INDONESIA;
Anti-American Protests Increase, and Sponsors Plan More

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Oct. 9


Anti-American demonstrations widened in Indonesia today, with riot police firing
tear gas to disperse angry protesters outside the United States Embassy in
Jakarta.

The protests, in at least four cities, remained relatively small, but radical
Muslim groups said they were preparing larger demonstrations and repeated their
warnings that they might attack foreigners here.

With international schools closed and the American Embassy urging "maximum
caution," dozens of American families headed abroad for unscheduled vacations.

About 10,000 Americans live in Indonesia. In addition, the embassies of Great
Britain, Australia, New Zealand and Japan have taken precautions.

Indonesia is a largely moderate Muslim country and President Megawati
Sukarnoputri has announced her qualified support for the United States in its
campaign against terrorism in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and
Washington. But the anger of the fringe groups that are holding demonstrations
reflects a broad resentment of the United States and opposition to its bombing
of Afghanistan.

The anti-American agitation, which has been growing since the Sept. 11 attacks,
has galvanized hard-line Islamic opposition to the moderate parties that control
the government and added a new complication to Mrs. Megawati's politically
fragile presidency.

Leaders of the Islamic Youth Movement, which has been recruiting volunteers for
what it calls a holy war, said they would agitate to remove Mrs. Megawati from
office if she did not condemn the bombing of Afghanistan. Another group, the
Islamic Defenders Front, threatened to attack foreigners if Mrs. Megawati did
not break relations with the United States.

Since Mrs. Megawati's statement of support for the United States after the Sept.
11 attacks, the government has equivocated, calling on Washington to show
restraint in its response. On Monday, Foreign Minister Hassan Wirayuda voiced
the government's "deep concern" over the start of the bombing in Afghanistan.

The demonstration outside the United States Embassy today was brief and noisy.
When the demonstrators, seemingly urged on by agitators, stormed a barbed-wire
barricade, riot police officers responded with tear gas, high-powered water
hoses and warning shots.

Elsewhere in Indonesia, demonstrators burned an American flag outside a
McDonald's in Makassar, on Sulawesi Island, more than 800 miles northeast of
Jakarta.

In Jakarta, away from the American Embassy, the city was quiet, but shoppers,
commuters and tradesmen, in a series of interviews, were almost unanimous in
voicing discontent with the United States.

"America is slipping into its usual role of showing off its superiority, so what
else is new?" said Anton Dwi Susilo, 38, who owns a small business. "They've
already got their hands dirty everywhere. They are upset this time because it is
their own citizens who are the victims."

Fuad Syarifuddin, 52, an insurance salesman, said the United States was lashing
out against Afghanistan in an emotional reaction.

"It's about time they knew what the rest of the world feels when it feels
helpless," he said, referring to the Sept. 11 attacks. "I think this is actually
a gentle reminder to them. They have created their own enemies by spreading fear
and by oppressing those who are weaker than they are."

Christina Widyaningsih, 24, a university student who is a Christian, said: "I
don't really understand the Islamic movement, but I can definitely sympathize
with their restlessness, their feeling that they have to do something. Yes,
innocent lives were lost in the attack on the World Trade Center. But do the
Americans really think their retaliation will solve the problem? I think
resentment toward the United States and its Western allies will only grow."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             551 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 24, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Marriabad Journal;
Minutes From Cries of Jihad, Town Dreams of U.S.

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 909 words

DATELINE: MARRIABAD, Pakistan


In this modest mountainside town in southwestern Pakistan, young boys, instead
of waving banners proclaiming death to America, fly homemade kites.

The tumult of Quetta is only a 15-minute ride away on the gaudy buses that ply
the chaotic streets, but Marriabad is an oasis in a parched desert of angry
protesters and Osama bin Laden posters. Here America is not the target of a tide
of hatred, but the Oz of ambitions and dreams.

"I want to be a doctor," said Abdul Ali, a handsome 12-year-old boy with a shy
smile, the third of nine children in an immigrant Afghan family. "I want to go
to America and be a surgeon."

A few feet away, Muhammad Mehdi, 16, overheard Abdul and volunteered that he was
studying computer programming so he could go to America. But he was unsure about
his chances. "Are the borders of America closed?" he asked.

Pakistan is a divided country that has tested nuclear devices. Predictions of
civil war are not taken lightly, and the religious extremists have dominated the
headlines since the first American attacks on Afghanistan. Yet there are havens
from hostility, even if they are not quite tranquil.

Some of these places are cultured and affluent, like Lahore, the gracious city
in eastern Pakistan. Others are rougher and poorer, like Marriabad.

No one is quite sure when the first people moved to Marriabad. The best guess is
25 or 30 years ago. What is certain is that they were poor, like everyone who
has come since. The village rests in the foothills of the rugged Chiltan
mountain range on the eastern boundary of Quetta, and only the poor would move
so far from the flatlands of the city center.

By the 1990's, the simple adobe houses had climbed the sides of the geological
rubble, pushed ever-upward by Afghan refugees fleeing Soviet invaders and civil
war.

The town became a magnet for the Hazaras, resilient refugees from central and
western Afghanistan. They trace their lineage to Genghis Khan's Mongol warriors,
and their ancestors built the giant Buddhas in Bamiyan that were destroyed by
the Taliban in March.

The Hazaras long ago converted to Islam, but they have had an often-violent
rivalry with the Pashtuns, who dominate Afghanistan. When the Taliban, who are
Pashtun, took control of most of the country, the exodus of Hazaras increased
manyfold.

The population of Marriabad has swelled to about 100,000 -- a lakh, or quite a
lot, in local parlance. A majority are Hazara, but they live peacefully
alongside Pakistanis. There are private schools, electricity and water carried
to the highest points in the village through a crude maze of pipes and pumps.

Make no mistake, the place is poor. The main businesses are the staples of
poverty -- bakeries selling flat loaves of Afghani bread for 8 cents, vegetable
vendors and cobblers repairing aged shoes and sandals. Many people are
vegetarians by necessity, and lucky families share a chicken once a week.

There are no roads to the houses perched in the upper reaches of the town, only
narrow stairs carved into the ancient rock. So the poorest people are relegated
to the highest land and the longest walk from the markets for women balancing
sacks of vegetables and bread on their heads.

Still, there is hope on the hill. Children played happily on the well-swept dirt
stairs recently, and a dozen little girls squealed with delight as a man pushed
them on a homemade Ferris wheel six feet high. Women can walk the streets with
their faces uncovered and girls go to school.

While firebrand clerics in Quetta send their followers into the streets to
denounce the United States and Britain, the biggest hope expressed these days in
Marriabad is that the Taliban will be crushed.

"Americans should finish the Taliban from Afghanistan," Khadin Hussain, 22, said
as he paused from tacking a new sole on a worn sandal. "The bombing is good."

The enduring hope here, which existed before this calamitous war on terror and
which is sure to persist after the last bomb is dropped, is to go to America.

English is the most popular subject in the town's schools and most children know
a phrase or two. Walking down the streets or trudging up the steep stairs,
visitors hear the smallest children call out: "Where are you from?" and "What is
your name?"

Some know little more than those phrases and are flummoxed by a response. Others
have mastered the language of their dreams.

"I want to speak English well," Imran Hussain, 14, a student at the English
Language Center, said proudly. "The time will come when all the languages will
finish and only English will survive. Then I will be able to go to America."

Abdul Hamid Changazi, 24, speaks English well and works as a clerk at a hospital
in Quetta. He saves as much as possible from pay of $50 a month so he and his
wife might go to America. "All people want to go to America," he said. "They
struggle more and more to go to America. Some from here have left. One man sold
his house and his property and he went to America. Or maybe London."

Mr. Changazi is a realist, though. He said he understands the long odds against
getting to America, or escaping the subsistence existence of Marriabad. When he
heard Abdul Ali, the young boy who wants to be a surgeon, say he planned to go
to America, he shook his head gently and took his visitor aside.

"Soon that boy will have to leave school and go to work to earn something for
home," he whispered. "His future is not so bright. Our real hope is to go home
to Afghanistan."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Muhammad Adi, 12, flying his kite from his mountainous home of
Marriabad, overlooking Quetta, Pakistan. Below, residents must trudge up and
down narrow stairs carved into ancient rock to reach their houses. (Photographs
by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) Map of Pakistan highlighting Marriabad:
In Marriabad, young people speak of going to the United States.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             552 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2001 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sharon Cites Possible Surge In Attacks for Delaying Trip

BYLINE:  By JOEL GREENBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 5


Explaining the postponement of his planned trip to the United States this week,
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said today that he had to stay in Israel to cope
with a possible surge in attacks as a result of new army tactics in the
confrontation with the Palestinians.

After withdrawing Israeli troops from the West Bank town of Qalqilya overnight,
and with the expectation of pulling out of other Palestinian-governed cities,
Mr. Sharon said the army would now use other means to combat terrorism.

"We're continuing with the same targets, with different methods," Mr. Sharon
told lawmakers from his Likud Party at a meeting in Parliament. "We're going to
operate in a different way. In this case, there is always a danger of an
outburst of terror. On the other hand, there's always a danger of escalation,
which I'm making every effort to prevent." He did not elaborate on the methods.

He said the decision to postpone was made "in consultation with the United
States."

While he has insisted that security concerns are keeping him back, there have
been strong suggestions, by, among others, a member of Mr. Sharon's cabinet,
that the prime minister prefers to avoid a visit while relations with Washington
are strained by Israel's invasions of Palestinian-ruled towns.

Israeli troops and tanks entered six Palestinian-ruled cities after the
assassination of the Israeli tourism minister on Oct. 17, and have pulled out of
three of them. Israel remains under American pressure to withdraw from the other
three: Ramallah, Jenin and Tulkarm.

The warning of increased terrorism as a result of new antiterror tactics raised
a few eyebrows. The anchorman of one nightly news show asked his station's
military correspondent if he understood how it was that the army's new offensive
policy could bring an increase in terrorism.

The military correspondent replied, "I don't quite understand it myself."

Mr. Sharon, who had been scheduled to meet President Bush this weekend, said he
expected to visit the United States "before the end of the month."

The Bush administration has been pressing for a full withdrawal in order to curb
violence that could undercut its efforts to enlist the support of Arab and other
Muslim nations for its war in Afghanistan.

Israeli officials say the troops will leave the remaining towns when the
security situation permits. Defense Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer said that
dozens of wanted militants had been arrested since the Israeli invasions began,
and that serious terrorist attacks had been prevented.

More than 40 Palestinians, including gunmen and civilians, have been killed in
the West Bank in fighting set off by the Israeli incursions, and attacks by
Palestinians have continued.

On the diplomatic front, Mr. Sharon said he and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres
had discussed a proposed peace plan drawn up by Mr. Peres. The plan reportedly
calls for an Israeli pullout from the Gaza Strip and dismantling of Israeli
settlements there, and the creation of a Palestinian state.

Mr. Sharon, who has staunchly opposed the removal of any settlements, said that
he planned to meet again with Mr. Peres about the proposal on Friday, and that
the matter was still under discussion.

"I want to see what the plan is," Mr. Sharon said. "I can't say yet that there's
a plan here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             553 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED;
Rage in the Streets

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of Pakistanis opposed to their nation's alliance with
America marched in several cities yesterday, including Karachi, where people
threw stones. Page B2. (Associated Press)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             554 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 15, 2001 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Palestinian Authority Arrests Jihad Leader, Causing a Riot

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 14


Palestinians rioted against Yasir Arafat's security forces today in the West
Bank after officers in Jenin arrested a man accused by Israel of orchestrating
suicide attacks against Israelis.

The violence underscored the dilemma facing Mr. Arafat as he seeks American
support in a renewed push toward peace negotiations.

He is under pressure from the United States, Russia and European countries to
arrest militants accused by Israel of plotting terrorist attacks. But any such
move is deeply unpopular with most Palestinians, who insist that no arrests
should be made while the peace talks are stalled and Israel maintains a virtual
blockade of the West Bank.

On a Jenin street this afternoon, Palestinian security officers arrested Mahmoud
Nurasi Tawalbi, 23, a leader of the violent group Islamic Jihad. After sunset
prayers, some 3,000 Palestinian gathered to demonstrate against the arrest.

Then a crowd of hundreds surrounded the headquarters of the security forces in
Jenin, throwing explosives and stones and firing guns, witnesses said. No one
was reported injured.

It was the worst Palestinian-on-Palestinian violence since Oct. 8, when Mr.
Arafat's forces opened fire on demonstrators in the Gaza Strip, killing two, to
stop a protest in support of Osama bin Laden and against the war in Afghanistan.
Then as now, Mr. Arafat was seeking to comply with what he perceived to be
American desires.

Witnesses said members of all major Palestinian factions, including Mr. Arafat's
own organization, Al Fatah, took part in tonight's demonstration, if not in the
attack on the security headquarters.

"We reject political arrests," Qadoura Fares Musa, a Fatah leader in Jenin, said
by telephone. Mr. Musa, who also condemned this evening's violence, said Mr.
Tawalbi, a resident of Jenin's large refugee camp, was very popular in the city.
"Everybody loved him," he said.

Israeli and Palestinian leaders are maneuvering for favorable position as
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell prepares to give a speech on Monday outlining
American policy in the Middle East. As the United States has tried to put
pressure on each side, Israelis and Palestinians have remained locked in a
standoff in which each accuses the other of ignoring treaty obligations. After
more than a year of conflict, neither side wants to blink first.

Israel has occupied positions in Jenin -- on what by treaty is supposed to be
Palestinian-controlled territory -- because, it says, Mr. Arafat has failed to
comply with his obligations to arrest extremists who threaten Israel. Israel
says it has restricted Palestinian travel and commerce in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip for the same reason.

In the meantime Mr. Arafat's own standing has steadily weakened, as radical
groups like Islamic Jihad and Hamas have gained adherents. Israeli officials
insist that Mr. Arafat, by sheer force of arms, retains enough raw power if not
political support to crack down on militants if he chooses to.

Tonight's confrontation lasted about four hours and ended only after officials
on the scene promised to work out some compromise, witnesses said.

Israel recently tried and failed to kill Mr. Tawalbi, who is on its list of 10
most wanted men, Israeli officials said.

Dore Gold, an adviser to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, cautioned that Mr. Tawalbi
had been arrested and released before. "The real question is whether this time
he will be incarcerated or whether it will be just back to the old revolving
door," he said.

An official with Mr. Arafat's preventive security confirmed tonight that Mr.
Tawalbi had been arrested "for interrogation regarding activities that harmed
the national security."

A spokesman for the Islamic Jihad in Jenin, Abdul Hailin Izaddin, accused the
Palestinian security forces of kidnapping Mr. Tawalbi. He said security forces
had been seeking at least 10 members of the group in Jenin but had "failed in
arresting them because people are protecting them." He called for Mr. Tawalbi's
immediate release.

Israeli officials said tonight that if today's action heralded a crackdown by
Mr. Arafat, the forces could withdraw soon.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             555 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

I.M.F. Plans For Recovery, But Avoids Terror Issue

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 17


The International Monetary Fund pressed the world's leading nations today to cut
interest rates further if needed to shore up a bleak world economy, while
outside the meeting globalization protesters braved the Canadian chill.

Finance ministers and central bankers from around the world met to chart the
actions the fund would take in the months ahead to try to counter an
increasingly dour and uncertain global economic outlook.

With the fund taking center stage on the second day of international financial
meetings here, the police arrested at least seven people as about 2,000
protesters, some of them burning American flags, gathered for a demonstration
against the guardians of globalization and the bombing in Afghanistan.

In a draft communique, the fund said that rich nations must take the lead in
promoting growth and that most should cut interest rates further if needed.

On the hotly debated topic of whether the fund should take a leading role in the
fight against terrorism, its policy-setting committee chose not to expand its
mandate to become a global financial policeman.

The communique reiterated that the fund expected the world economy to begin to
recover by the second half of next year.

"The recent easing of monetary policy in the U.S., the euro area, and other
advanced economies is welcome, and the committee considers that there is room
for further action in most countries if required," said the draft from the
fund's International Monetary and Financial Committee.

The committee, made up of representatives from the fund's 183 members, sets the
organization's policy. It meets twice a year..

A heavy police presence, a modest turnout and cold weather combined to keep
protests fairly subdued, although the police use tear gas in one case to control
the crowd. In another incident, the police doused the crowd with water.

The protesters contend that the fund and the World Bank foist ill-suited
policies on poor countries.

Inside the meetings in an old railway station that now serves as a government
conference center, delegates defended globalization and the open markets it
entails.

"The idea that globalization in itself leads to a worse distribution of wealth
in the world is just plain wrong," said Ernst Welteke, president of the German
central bank.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States, there has been a surge in
efforts to combat the financing of extremist actions -- something the United
States sees as an integral part of its broader war against terrorism.

The Group of 20 nations, a group of leading rich and emerging economies, pledged
to do whatever was needed to curb the flow of funds to extremist groups.

Some had hoped the fund would adopt a leading role in that effort, helping
coordinate the efforts of various watchdogs. But the communique suggested the
fund was shunning the role of global policeman, for now at least.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             556 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2001 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sharon's War Cannot Be Won

BYLINE:  By Ali Abunimah;  Ali Abunimah is vice president of the Arab American
Action Network.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO


Once again the world has had to confront the horror of innocent men, women and
children killed by suicide bombers in the heart of Jerusalem and in Haifa. No
decent person can refrain from condemning such attacks in the strongest terms.
Such deeds harm not only their innocent victims, which in this case probably
included Palestinian citizens of Israel, but also the just cause of Palestine.

As a Palestinian I am often challenged by the press on my views about such
horrific bombings. I emphatically repeat my condemnation and state that I oppose
the targeting and killing of innocent civilians regardless of whether they are
Israelis or Palestinians.

Yet I wonder why no one asked how I felt when five Palestinian schoolboys were
killed by a bomb planted by the Israeli occupation forces in a refugee camp in
Gaza less than two weeks ago -- or why Israelis and pro-Israel spokesmen, who
are called for comment by the same radio and television stations that call me,
are rarely asked to condemn the violence that is committed in their name.

I watched in sadness the latest American envoy to the Middle East, Gen. Anthony
C. Zinni, laying a wreath in Jerusalem at the site of the bombings. But where
was the American wreath for the five boys killed in Gaza? Why are the targeting
and killing of hundreds of Palestinian civilians, including more than 150
children, and the suffocation by siege of three million Palestinians so often
considered mere background noise to Israel's drama?

In response to the suicide attacks, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld
said, "The only way to defend against terrorists is to go after the terrorists."
This can only be understood as an endorsement of Israel's policy of
extrajudicial executions, which on Nov. 23 took the life of a senior Hamas
leader and set off the latest round of suicide bombings.  The retaliation by
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel -- bombing Gaza and the West Bank -- is
the beginning of a new stage of war. What other punishments will be imposed on
the Palestinians? More shelling of refugee camps? More houses destroyed? More
kidnappings? More torture? An even tighter blockade?

None of these strategies are likely to end the violence; after all, all have
been used relentlessly and without mercy. Perhaps this time Mr. Sharon will
order the special forces to either kill Yasir Arafat or send him back into
exile.

My response to all of this is a big shrug. So they send Yasir Arafat back to
Tunis or assassinate him -- the occupation will still be there. The Israelis
will be the losers because they will no longer have the decrepit old man, their
bin Laden, to blame for all their problems. They will come face to face with the
fact that it is the occupation that is the fuel of the conflict. Palestinians
will be neither better off nor worse off. Some even think that a return to
direct military occupation without the intermediary of the Palestinian Authority
can only sharpen the confrontation and bring about a conclusion -- however
miserable -- more rapidly.

Certainly no serious person believes that Mr. Arafat and his lieutenants,
nominally controlling a few divided scraps of land in the West Bank and Gaza,
can through coercion, arrests and torture do what Israel with all its might has
failed to do: bring about an unconditional end to all resistance against the
occupation or attacks on Israeli civilians.

Mr. Rumsfeld revealed that even he doubts that Mr. Arafat can succeed when he
said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that Mr. Arafat "is not a particularly strong
leader" and added, "I don't know that he has good control over the Palestinian
situation." But the view of the Bush administration, reinforced by Israel's
intransigent lobby, blames one man for all the ugly symptoms of 53 years of
repression of millions of people in Palestine -- policies supported for decades
by the United States. All too aware of his assigned role, Mr. Arafat has
declared a state of emergency. This amounts to little in practice since all the
means of repression and arbitrary rule at the disposal of the Palestinian
Authority are already in full use while none of the means that could actually
improve the lives of Palestinians are granted to it by Israel.

The burden of death has fallen on Palestinians as it has fallen on Israelis. The
only surprise will come if dozens more innocent people are not killed in the
coming weeks.

Mr. Zinni said he will stay in the region until he succeeds in getting a
cease-fire. But if American policy avoids dealing directly with the root causes
of the conflict, he should plan to be in the Mideast war zone a long time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Joe Sacco)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             557 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 22, 2001 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

TURMOIL IN ARGENTINA: INTERNATIONAL FINANCE;
ARGENTINA'S CHAOS RAISES NEW DOUBTS ON MONETARY FUND

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 21


The deadly riots in Argentina, the collapse of its government and another
multibillion dollar bailout gone awry have raised fresh questions about the
effectiveness of the International Monetary Fund and the financial policies of
the United States, the fund's leading shareholder.

Latin American and European government leaders today joined protesters in Buenos
Aires, Wall Street traders and financial experts in putting at least part of the
blame for Argentina's problems on the lending agency and the Clinton and Bush
administrations.

Some say the monetary fund showed callousness by failing to give new aid to
Argentina early this month, as the country's economic program, designed with
I.M.F. approval, was forcing painful austerity measures on its citizens. Others
say the fund made the opposite mistake, repeatedly offering loans to Argentina
despite indications that the country's policies had become unworkable, delaying
the day of reckoning.

These criticisms, even if contradictory, increase pressure on the I.M.F. and the
Bush administration to articulate a clear policy toward financial rescue
efforts, which often come under fire even when they are judged successful.

Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill came into office publicly denouncing
multibillion dollar bailouts, saying that either they fail outright or they
allow foreign governments to get away with bad policymaking and investors to get
away with bad bets.

In practice, however, the Bush administration has yet to take a clear stance on
such bailouts and has made international financial policy a low priority.

Peru's finance minister, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, complained today that the fund
bungled its dealings with Argentina by adopting inconsistent policies that were
at turns passive and inflexible. "The fund is partly to blame for this because
the fund did not sound the alarm in time and then took a very hard line when
things were incredibly difficult," he told Peruvian radio.

Hubert Vedrine, the French foreign minister, assailed the I.M.F. for abandoning
a longtime client and imposing "demands that have been excessive or at the wrong
time." The French, who like the United States are significant fund shareholders,
have called on the lending agency to step up its involvement to help Argentina
recover.

After some hand-wringing about jeopardizing the money of American "plumbers and
carpenters," Mr. O'Neill supported a multibillion loan for Argentina in August.
He has also backed two large rescue packages for Turkey, a strategic ally that
has faced tough financial problems.

When Argentina's crisis worsened in recent weeks, Bush administration officials
did not take a firm position, allowing the I.M.F. to make the call on
withholding additional loans, people involved in the fund's deliberations said.

Even the harshest critics of the I.M.F. put most of the blame for Argentina's
current plight on a succession of governments in Buenos Aires. But many say the
monetary fund should have called government officials to account sooner.

Argentina adopted a strict fixed-currency regime and overhauled its banks in the
early 1990's. It tamed inflation and became, for a spell, a glowing economic
success story.

But subsequent governments allowed spending to grow out of control, building up
a foreign debt that became impossible to maintain. Argentina also fell into a
deep recession four years ago. The government beseeched the I.M.F. for help to
stay solvent as it tried to work through its problems.

Backed by both the Clinton and Bush administrations, the I.M.F. twice came to
the rescue, beginning late last year.

The idea was to help the country defend its fixed currency, which had become a
political touchstone, while avoiding default on $132 billion in foreign debt,
allowing it to continue good relations with foreign investors.

The terms of the aid program were wrenching. The government agreed to slash
spending during a deep recession to increase the chances of making debt payments
on schedule.

"If Argentina got its core economic policies right, it would have avoided this
problem," said Charles Calomiris, a finance and economics professor at Columbia
University who has been sounding the alarm about Argentina for months. "But the
I.M.F. and both the Clinton and Bush administrations let them stay in denial.
They all wanted the problem to fall on someone else's watch."

It is always a tough call to cut off aid, Mr. Calomiris said. But he argued that
by delaying, the fund helped Argentina dig itself into a deeper hole.

"If you do not show leadership and make it happen early, then you face a
catastrophe," he said.

Michael Mussa, the I.M.F.'s chief economist until last spring, said the fund was
justified in providing aid to Argentina late last year.

But he said that he disagreed with the decision by the fund and the Bush
administration to continue the aid program in August, when he said the situation
in Argentina had likely deteriorated beyond repair.

"The fund made a mistake in not saying no in August," Mr. Mussa said. "The
situation might have been more controllable then."

The difficulty, of course, is that such calls are much easier to make in
hindsight. Mr. Mussa acknowledged that even when the political and economic
situation in Argentina was more stable, a move to delay debt payments or devalue
the currency ran the risk of rattling financial markets and even causing a
financial implosion in the region.

In contrast, by watching Argentina wrestle with its finances over a period of
months, financial markets anticipated the possibility of a default. The chances
of contagion are now viewed as minimal.

Moreover, it is difficult to place blame for Argentina's economic program
squarely on the fund when much of the policy was designed by Argentina itself,
sometimes over the objections of the fund's economists.

At an August meeting at I.M.F. headquarters, fund officials told Domingo
Cavallo, Argentina's economy minister, that the country would be better off
delaying debt payments.

Argentina, however, was determined to pay its debts in full and keep its fixed
currency in place, fulfilling what it viewed as a promise to its citizens and
creditors who had been told for years that pesos were as good as dollars. It
outlined strict fiscal policies that it claimed would allow it to meet its
obligations.

But by December, as Mr. Cavallo resorted to freezing bank accounts and raiding
pension funds to find enough hard currency to make debt payments, collapse
looked imminent. The fund decided to suspend aid for a program that appeared to
have little chance of success.

Though there were unique elements, Argentina's demise seems certain to add to
the doubts about the wisdom of bailouts, doubts that have grown in recent years.
Nearly every major financial rescue effort, including those in Mexico, Thailand,
Indonesia, South Korea, Russia and Brazil, has come under intense scrutiny from
the left and the right, albeit for widely varying reasons.

Fund officials say privately that they cannot avoid financial bailouts
altogether. The lesson of Argentina, they say, is that they need to find a way
to say no before the people they are supposed to be helping take to the streets.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul H. O'Neill, the treasury secretary, is a skeptic on
bailouts. (Associated Press)(pg. A10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                             558 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 2, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Mediator Returning to Mideast as Violence Declines

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 1


In an indication that it sees a new determination on the part of Yasir Arafat to
rein in militant Palestinian factions, the United States said today that it
would send its envoy back to the Middle East to try to end 15 months of
Israeli-Palestinian violence.

Anthony C. Zinni, the Bush administration mediator who left in mid-December
during a period of widespread violence, will return to the region on Thursday
for four days of talks with representatives of Mr. Arafat and Prime Minister
Ariel Sharon of Israel, the American Embassy said.

The return of General Zinni, who is retired from the Marine Corps, represents a
calculated risk by the United States that the time is right to try to build on
the relative quiet of the last two weeks and restart peace talks between the two
sides.

"General Zinni will encourage the Palestinians to continue cracking down on
terrorists and going after their infrastructure," said Paul Patin, a spokesman
for the embassy. "Assuming that happens, we will encourage the Israelis to
lighten up the closures and restrictions on movements of Palestinians."

Mr. Patin said that the schedule for General Zinni's meetings was still being
arranged and that it was unclear whether he would meet with Mr. Sharon and Mr.
Arafat.

The Palestinians have pushed for the mediator's return as an acknowledgment of
the seriousness of Mr. Arafat's crackdown, which has led to the arrest of 50 or
more militants suspected of planning violence and a sharp drop in attacks on
Israelis.

"We hope that we will start working on a timetable and mechanism for
implementing the Mitchell understanding," Saeb Erekat, a Palestinian negotiator,
said, referring to the peace plan negotiated last year by George Mitchell, the
former senator.

One of the most pressing questions surrounding General Zinni's return is whether
it will ignite a new round of violence. The level of suicide attacks on Israelis
rose sharply during his last trip, with 44 Israelis killed in December. Israel
contended that the increase resulted from efforts by hard-line Palestinians to
derail peace efforts.

Israeli security officials said the number of attacks has dropped significantly
since Dec. 16, when Mr. Arafat made a broadcast to his people in which he
ordered "a complete stop to all armed activities, especially the suicide attacks
that we condemn always."

Since then, the militant group Hamas said it would suspend attacks inside
Israel, leaving open the possibility of violence against soldiers and settlers
in the West Bank and Gaza. Another major group, Islamic Jihad, has not renounced
attacks.

Israeli security and political officials remain skeptical about the Palestinian
leader's long-term commitment for putting top militants behind bars and
dismantling the apparatus for attacks in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. They
contend that he has put the attacks on hold only to win back international
support, including that of the United States.

"You cannot deny that it is quiet now," said a senior Israeli Foreign Ministry
official. "On the other hand, Arafat can play the terrorist games again if he
decides the political game is not in his favor."

Mr. Sharon's men fear that the United States, through General Zinni, will apply
pressure to ease restrictions on Palestinian movements and Israeli forays into
Palestinian territory without what they regard as a serious commitment from Mr.
Arafat to abandon a strategy of violence.

For their part, Palestinian officials said the evidence of Mr. Arafat's
commitment had shown up on the ground and through continued steps to keep a lid
on violence. It is time, they said, for Israel to respond by easing the closings
on the West Bank and Gaza and stop new construction in Jewish settlements.

The Palestinian police have locked up dozens of Hamas and Islamic Jihad members
and closed a number of their offices. At the same time, Israeli troops and
security units have stepped up their arrests of Palestinian militants.

"We are the ones arresting the big fish," said Lt. Col. Olivier Rafovitch, an
Israeli Army spokesman.

Before dawn today, Israeli tanks and troops touched off an exchange of gunfire
with Palestinians when they raided a village near Jenin in a
Palestinian-controlled section of the West Bank and arrested three men. The army
said one of the men was a Hamas activist suspected of planning terror attacks.

Palestinian officials said an undercover Israeli security force abducted a
militant today at a junction in the Palestinian-controlled part of the Gaza
Strip. They identified the militant as Riyad Ayad, who is accused by Israeli
security forces of organizing the firing of mortars at Jewish settlements in the
area.

Mr. Riyad is the son of Col. Masoud Ayad, a senior member of Force 17, the
Palestinian presidential security unit. The elder man was killed by fire from an
Israeli gunship last year and also was accused by the Israelis of involvement in
firing mortars on Jewish settlements.

Israel's policy of killing Palestinian leaders suspected of directing attacks on
Israelis has led to international condemnation, and some experts speculated that
recent arrests and abductions were intended to reduce criticism.

Colonel Rafovitch rejected the speculation, saying: "The preferred option always
is the arrest, but sometimes it is impossible to do it. The targeting policy is
when there is no other alternative."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Signs like these in the Gaza Strip have also appeared in the
West Bank and Israel as part of an effort by Peoples Peace, a
Palestinian-Israeli group. (Associated Press); Anthony C. Zinni, the American
envoy to the Middle East. (Pool photo by Natalie Behring)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             559 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arab Slays 2 and Wounds 20 After 4 Die in a Raid by Israel

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Wednesday, Jan. 23


Wearing a blue jacket and carrying an M-16 semiautomatic rifle, the young man
looked like just another Israeli soldier, on guard even if off duty, as he
strolled through Jerusalem's crowded shopping district late Tuesday afternoon.

But with a cry in Arabic of "God is great!" the man, a member of a Palestinian
militant group, turned the rifle on passers-by, killing two women and wounding
20 other people as he sprayed bullets at two bus stops and several stores.

Police officers chased the gunman down and shot him dead in a parking lot. It
was the first attack by a Palestinian militant in Jerusalem since Dec. 16, when
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, called for a halt to violence against
Israelis. On Dec. 1 two suicide bombers killed themselves and 11 others about a
block from the scene of the shooting on Tuesday, on Jaffa Road.

After a week of growing violence, the shooting came on a day already stained by
bloodshed. Before dawn on Tuesday, Israeli forces killed four Palestinian
militants, members of the Islamic group Hamas, with a raid on what the army
called a bomb-making laboratory in the West Bank city of Nablus.

The violence on Tuesday set the stage for reprisals by both sides and left Mr.
Arafat in a precarious position. With the cease-fire collapsing, he is a virtual
prisoner of the Israeli Army in the West Bank city of Ramallah and is running
out of space to maneuver between the demands of Israel and the Bush
administration on one hand and, on the other, those of militants opposed to
talks and others who have lost faith in them.

More than a thousand demonstrators in Nablus clashed on Tuesday with the
Palestinian police, who shot one of them dead. The protesters called on Mr.
Arafat's Palestinian Authority to release the men it had jailed at the request
of Israel and the United States. The Palestinian Authority could not protect the
prisoners from an Israeli attack, the protesters said.

Israel promised a response to the attack here, responsibility for which was
claimed by a group linked to Mr. Arafat's own Fatah faction. Leaders of Hamas
promised revenge for the killings of its members.

Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the Bush administration insist that Mr. Arafat
enforce the cease-fire.

The shooting in Jerusalem sent screaming pedestrians diving to the pavement and
shopkeepers tunneling beneath their goods. Along Jaffa Road, where business was
already suffering and nerves were already frayed, the attack left shattered
glass and scores of bullet holes in shop windows and cars. The police said some
civilians had returned fire.

"It was Lebanon in the middle of Jerusalem," said one witness, Yacov Cohen.

Two of the four people who were seriously wounded died early this morning, a
spokesman for Haddassah Ein Kerem hospital said. The women, aged 78 and 56, were
not further identified. Fourteen of the wounded remain hospitalized.

Staff Sgt. Hanan Ben Naim was one of the police officers who closed in on the
gunman, trading shots with him from behind parked cars. "He was calm," the
sergeant recalled. "I saw hate in his eyes."

Magdolene Othman, 19, from the Israeli Arab village of Abu Ghosh near Jerusalem,
was in tears as she recalled the experience as a bus she was riding came under
fire. "Somebody pulled me down and told me to lie on the floor," she said. "I'm
an Arab, and I don't understand how people can do these kinds of things."

Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades, a militant group linked to Mr. Arafat's Fatah
organization, claimed responsibility for the assault. The assailant was
identified as Said Ramadan, 22, a Palestinian policeman on leave. Mr. Ramadan
was from the village of Tel near Nablus.

The Aksa group has ignored the notional cease-fire to carry out shootings that
have killed at least nine Israeli civilians since Jan. 14, when one of the
group's leaders was slain by a hidden bomb. Israeli officials have acknowledged
that Israel planted the bomb, saying the man, Raed al-Karmi, was preparing to
lead more attacks on Israelis.

Palestinians and Israeli soldiers have clashed daily in Ramallah since Israeli
tanks advanced within a hundred yards of Mr. Arafat's compound on Friday. On
Tuesday an Israeli soldier was accidentally killed by fire from an Israeli
machine gun, the army said. The army is investigating the incident.

Israeli officials say Mr. Arafat has imprisoned few of the most dangerous men
and has failed to interrogate the ones he already has behind bars. Mr. Arafat
cannot escape his virtual imprisonment in Ramallah without acting against more
militants, the Israelis say.

But as he is pressed on one side by the Israelis, who argue that he is not
fighting Palestinian terrorism, Mr. Arafat is also facing increasing resistance
from his own people. Ismail Abu Shanab, a senior political leader of Hamas, said
the Israeli raid had ended the limited cease-fire that Hamas had negotiated with
Mr. Arafat.

"What happened in the West Bank is a dangerous military escalation that gives
Hamas the right to respond," he said, speaking before the shooting in Jerusalem.
"The security coordination between Israel and the Palestinian Authority must
stop. There should be no call for a cease-fire." He said the Palestinian
Authority should arrest no more militants.

Palestinians in Nablus and elsewhere seem to be in no mood for such arrests. On
Tuesday thousands took to the Nablus streets, stoning a police station and a
prison, burning three police trucks and overturning another as they called on
the Authority to release the men it had put behind bars at the demand of Israel.
They said the prisoners were sitting ducks for Israeli fire.

"Nobody's protected here," said a woman who identified herself only as the
mother of a prisoner, Ahmed Awad. "Even people who are not in jail are being
killed. The Authority cannot protect them in prison."

The rioters tore down sections of the chain-link fence surrounding the prison
and left the street outside it strewn with stones. Part of the building, the
central security compound in Nablus, is still a pile of rubble from an attack by
Israeli F-16 fighter jets last May. The police responded with tear gas and live
fire.

To calm the crowd, the authorities agreed to negotiate with representatives of
the prisoners and their families, demonstrators said. They also released a man
-- temporarily, his family said -- to attend the funeral of a brother, who was
killed in the Israeli raid.

About 4 on Tuesday morning, Israeli soldiers crept up on a hillside apartment
building in the western outskirts of Nablus. The army said the Palestinians had
struck first, heaving a bomb at the soldiers and then exchanging gunfire with
them. Four soldiers were wounded in the fight, the army said.

But as they picked through the ruins of the apartment, members of the
Palestinian security forces insisted that the men had not had the chance to
fight back.

The security officers said three had died in one bedroom, where the walls were
pitted with dozens of bullets holes and the bedclothes were soaked with blood.
They said the fourth had died in the bathroom, where two black sandals sat by a
bathtub covered in blood. The bathroom door had been forced open.

Mahmoud Bitar, 18, a neighbor, said he had entered the apartment after the
soldiers had left and found the body in the bathroom dressed only in underwear.

Mr. Bitar said he was awakened about 4 a.m. by an explosion, followed by heavy
gunfire and more blasts. "I heard one of the four men saying: 'They are
upstairs. They are upstairs,' " he said. "And afterward, it was very quiet."

The Israeli Army initially reported early Tuesday morning that soldiers had
killed five militants in the raid.

Maj. Gen. Yitzhak Eitan called the apartment "perhaps the largest" bomb-making
laboratory ever found in the West Bank. The army said its soldiers had
discovered explosive belts of the type used by suicide bombers, as well as
explosives, ammunition, wires, metal pellets for use as shrapnel and several
cellular phones and beepers, which could be used as detonators.

In the ruined bedroom, at least one box for a new cellular phone remained.

Israeli officials said that in a joint security meeting on Thursday night, they
requested that Palestinian forces arrest the four Hamas men. But, they said, the
Palestinian officers took no action. They said all four men had been involved in
lethal attacks on Israelis.

At least two of the men killed were among the top 33 militants wanted by Israel,
according to Israeli officials. Over loudspeakers in Nablus on Tuesday, Hamas
members identified one of the dead, Yousef Haled Yousef Sukagi, as the
underground leader of the military wing of Hamas in the West Bank.

Israel killed the previous West Bank leader, Mahmoud Abu Hanoud, with a missile
strike near Nablus on Nov. 23. Hamas described several subsequent attacks,
including the suicide bombings here on Dec. 1, as revenge for Mr. Abu Hanoud's
death.

Over the loudspeakers in Nablus on Tuesday, Hamas was calling again for revenge.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Israeli in Jerusalem's shopping district yesterday after a
Palestinian militant turned a rifle on passers-by. (Lefteris
Pitarakis/Associated Press)(pg. A1); A police superintendent went to examine the
body of the gunman who had shot passers-by in Jerusalem. (Rina Castelnuovo for
The New York Times)(pg. A4) Map of Israel highlighting the site of the shooting
and Jerusalem: A shooting in Jerusalem was the latest attack in a violent week.
(pg. A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             560 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 30, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Suicide Threat By 9 Refugees Held in Camp By Australia

BYLINE:  By BECKY GAYLORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Wednesday, Jan. 30


Nine teenage Afghans seeking asylum are threatening to kill themselves unless
they are freed from a camp where hundreds of illegal immigrants have been on a
hunger strike for two weeks to protest their detention.

The threats have prompted a government delegation to make its third visit in
about a week to the isolated camp, on the desert plains of South Australia, to
discuss the immigrants' demands.

The immigrants are protesting the conditions at the camp, called Woomera, and
the government's policy of detaining all illegal immigrants while their
applications for asylum wind through the bureaucracy, which can take years. In
the past week, detainees at other centers across Australia have joined the
protests.

Some have sewn their mouths shut and refused to eat. Others have harmed
themselves by swallowing chemicals or cutting their wrists and stomachs. Several
have tried to hang themselves, the government has confirmed.

The nine boys who threatened suicide said they would wait 24 hours while
government negotiators met with them and the other protesters. Most are from the
Middle East and Asia.

"They're terribly adamant about it," said Robert McDonald, a lawyer for the
teenagers. "I'm sure they will follow through."

Hassan Varasi, an Afghan asylum seeker who is acting as spokesman for hundreds
of detainees from inside the camp, said most hunger strikers had cut the threads
from their mouths to show a willingness to negotiate.

"There is a sign of hope," he said.

The talks started Tuesday night and are to continue today.

But the gulf between what the immigrants want and what the government is willing
to give remains wide. The immigrants say they want to live in the community, not
in a camp ringed with barbed wire, while their applications are processed. But
"moving is not our only demand," Mr. Varasi said.

The government is not budging on its 10-year-old policy of mandatory detention,
taking a tough line against a rising tide of migrants shipped here by smugglers
who have made Australia an increasingly popular destination.

The government delegates who have visited the camps said they would recommend
closing Woomera in the long term.

But lawyers for the asylum seekers, who have been barred from the discussions,
contend that the delegates, formally an advisory group on the detention of
immigrants, serves a limited role.

"They're a papier-mache body," Mr. McDonald said. "They don't have any power to
do anything."

Paris Aristotle, a member of the advisory group, conceded that releasing
detainees "is not something that we have the capacity to authorize." The group's
purpose is diplomatic, he said.

Even moving the asylum seekers from Woomera to another center seems unlikely in
the short term. There is no space available at other camps, an immigration
agency spokesman said.

Though the government faces mounting criticism from groups like Amnesty
International, Prime Minister John Howard and other politicians have said there
is no alternative.

"Tough as our policy is," Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said in a recent
radio interview, "if we were to abandon that policy, as some suggest, then we'd
live with the consequences of having a completely disorderly immigration
program."

Making reference to the policy's broad support among Australians, he said, "I'll
be more concerned when Australians disagree than when some foreigners do."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An asylum seeker yesterday at Port Hedland Detention Center in
northwest Australia. Dozens of refugees in scattered camps have stitched their
lips during a two-week-old hunger strike to protest camp conditions. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             561 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 31, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

FORUM IN NEW YORK: THE OVERVIEW;
Rich and Powerful Gathering At Elite Forum on Economy

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words


In keeping with the times, the way to the site of the grand annual retreat of
the world's movers and shakers was a maze of police barriers, concrete
barricades, flashing lights and blue uniforms yesterday. But once inside the
Waldorf-Astoria, it was more like the start of summer camp.

Many who arrived on the eve of the opening today had been there before, and
dropped their satchels and attache cases to clasp a hand and slap a shoulder.
Many were men who had the air of money and power, but there were also third
world diplomats, women business executives, clergy, academics and journalists.

The list of the 2,500 participants ran the gamut from celebrity C.E.O.'s like
Bill Gates and Steve Forbes on through Russian oligarchs, kings and prime
ministers, senators and even patriarchs.

This was the 31st World Economic Forum, an annual gathering to which an
invitation is perceived -- by participants and critics at least -- as a
membership card in a global economic and political elite.

It was also the first held outside the Swiss ski resort of Davos, which has
provided the name by which the forum is popularly known. The organizers moved it
after the Sept. 11 attacks, and after the Swiss government had balked at the
rising cost of providing security.

Unlike other conferences, this one does not expect to produce decisions or
papers. This year, the theme is "Leadership in Fragile Times: a Vision for a
Shared Future." But participants like Delaware Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the
chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, and the social scientist Samuel P.
Huntington of Harvard are scheduled to discuss "the root cause of conflict,"
while Jeff Bezos of Amazon.com was listed on a panel on "connecting to consumers
in uncertain times."

Leaders of 1,000 "foremost companies" from around the world pay about $25,000
each in annual dues and about $6,000 per participant to attend the annual
meeting, and many come back.

"I've been coming here for 14 years, and even though it's expensive, it's a lot
cheaper than trying to meet all these people any other way," said the Lebanese
head of an international trading company who asked not to be identified.

Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International and another
veteran of Davos conclaves, said the value was in the "cross-fertilization of
ideas."

"It's the quality and level of the people, and the stimulating nature of the
format," he said. "You get to discuss ideas you might not face in everyday
business."

To offset the image of a global establishment, and to foment discussions, there
are sizable contingents from other worlds -- 40 religious leaders, 200 experts
from think tanks and various academic centers, 350 news media representatives
and 40 union leaders.

Organizers estimate that a quarter of the 2,500 participants have come from
developing countries.

Traditionally, Davos includes a large dollop of partying. Even in these fiscally
tight times there are a dozen private affairs. The Coca-Cola Company hosts its
annual soiree at the Four Seasons Restaurant. Other companies have booked
landmarks like Le Cirque 2000, and Goldman Sachs & Company has reserved the
Rainbow Room for a Super Bowl party on Sunday.

That has not prevented critics from painting the forum in the darkest colors.
"The World Economic Forum will celebrate war in Afghanistan and the Middle East,
attacks on civil liberties, and corporate tax cuts," proclaimed a group called
A.N.S.W.E.R. (Act Now to Stop War and End Racism) in its call for demonstrations
which will get under way in earnest with marches on Saturday.

"At the New York W.E.F. summit, the world's richest C.E.O.'s will collaborate
with the world's most powerful politicians to set the global economic agenda,"
declared another group, Students for Global Justice.

Whether the protests reach the violence of the meeting last year in Davos
remains to be seen. Some opposition groups acknowledge that a clash with "New
York's finest" in the aftermath of Sept. 11 would not sit well with the public.

Klaus Schwab, the Swiss business professor who created and still rules the
Geneva-based World Economic Forum, bridles at the image critics paint of the
gatherings of greedy corporate chiefs discussing how to fatten their bottom
lines.

"I think that is a very demagogic, simplified and polarizing way to describe
people," he said in an interview. "You assume that all these people are the
same. You make a caricature. If you look at the decision-makers who are here,
there are certainly some who fit this description, but it is not a homogeneous
group. Not every C.E.O. is just into making money, is greedy and so on."

Mr. Schwab said 40 percent of the participants are C.E.O.'s, and about 30
percent of the rest are "idealists" -- a category that evidently included
environmentalists, religious leaders and the like.

"Maybe I'm too much of an idealist, but there are also fathers, they have a
younger generation and they think in terms of the environment and so on" he
said.

Among these was Robert Kinloch Massie of the Global Reporting Initiative, which
seeks to develop guidelines for reporting on the economic, environmental and
social performance for corporations.

"I'm a believer in getting people with diverse backgrounds into the same room,"
Mr. Massie said as he waited to register.

Over the years the forum has been the venue for important decisions. In 1994,
Yasir Arafat of the Palestinian Authority -- a regular who is blocked from
attending this year by Israeli tanks -- reached a historic agreement with the
Israeli foreign minister, Shimon Peres.

Two years earlier, the South African president, F. W. de Klerk, met in Davos
with Nelson Mandela -- their first joint appearance outside South Africa.

Veteran participants said that in general the participation of government
officials has steadily grown through the history of the forum, changing its
character from a business meeting to the broader discussion of current issues.

But this year, the Bush White House is mostly staying away. Colin L. Powell, the
secretary of state, and Paul O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, will be the
highest ranking representatives. Unlike Bill Clinton, who came as president,
President Bush does not go in for a lot of talk.

But at its core, the conference has been an attempt to focus the formal
workshops and meetings on issues rather than business. Senator Hillary Rodham
Clinton, Democrat of New York, for example, will debate trends with the likes of
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Shimon Peres and George Soros.

Other discussions likely to stir at least curiosity are one on "understanding
global anger," featuring the chairman of McDonald's, Jack Greenberg, or another
on "the politics of apology," with Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and Elie
Wiesel.

Whatever the panels, most of the talk will center on the weakening economies of
Europe and America and the war on terrorism. "This requires us, to borrow the
title of another workshop in the program, to 'rethink safety and security in
business and in government,' " as the introduction to the program noted. "In
many ways, the crucial question is how we are going to address the new forms and
dimensions of risk."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             562 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 16, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

China Expels 53 Foreign Falun Gong Followers

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 15


China expelled 33 Americans and 20 other foreigners today, a day after they were
arrested in the largest demonstration yet by foreign members of the banned Falun
Gong spiritual movement, the Beijing police said.

The American Embassy said that the Chinese authorities had informed it about the
expelled Americans but that it had no further details about them.

Other Falun Gong supporters expelled today came from 11 other countries,
including Canada and several countries of Europe and Asia. But six who carried
no documents and refused to reveal their nationalities were still in police
custody tonight, the New China News Agency reported.

The protest on Tiananmen Square, during the Lunar New Year holiday and one week
before President Bush is to arrive here on a visit, was intended to dramatize
the harsh persecution of Chinese believers of Falun Gong, a formerly popular
meditation and spiritual movement that was outlawed here in 1999 as an "evil
cult."

Over a two-hour period on Thursday afternoon, small groups of foreign believers
unfurled banners, shouted slogans and ran across the giant square in the center
of Beijing before being wrestled into vans by police officers. Earlier in the
day, other would-be protesters had been detected and detained at their hotels.

Falun Gong promises followers that they can achieve physical and spiritual
benefits through special meditative exercises. It combines elements of Buddhism
and Taoism with the traditional Chinese practice of "qigong," which claims to
harness supernatural forces, and in the 1990's it attracted a following in China
in the millions.

Falun Gong was developed by Li Hongzhi, who moved to the United States in the
late 1990's and in 1999 was branded a charlatan and a criminal by the Chinese
government after the group attracted attention with illegal demonstrations here,
demanding official recognition.

In the first months after Falun Gong was banned, thousands of Chinese believers
converged on Beijing to appeal for a reversal. But the authorities have given no
quarter, putting thousands into "re-education through labor" camps and harassing
most former practitioners into silence. The police tactics have been condemned
by international human rights monitors and, according to credible reports, more
than 100 believers have died in police custody.

In the last year, overseas followers of the group have held several
demonstrations in Beijing, hoping to embarrass the Chinese authorities, and
Thursday's protest was the largest such effort yet.

The group is hoping that President Bush, who has shown deep interest in issues
of religious freedom, will press their cause during his visit here next Thursday
and Friday.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             563 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

MIDEAST TURMOIL: THE TALKS;
Hopes Rise for a Mideast Truce, Despite Attacks

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1268 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 17


Two terror attacks in Israel and heavy gunfire in Bethlehem today marked the
fourth day of Gen. Anthony C. Zinni's shuttle diplomacy, but the American envoy
appeared to make substantive headway toward brokering a cease-fire between the
Israelis and Palestinians.

As night fell, Israeli and Palestinian officials held separate meetings in Gaza
and the West Bank to work out security arrangements for an Israeli withdrawal
from all Palestinian-controlled areas, according to officials of both sides.

Israeli forces pulled back from most of the Palestinian areas they had invaded
in a large-scale military operation over the past two weeks, but remained in and
around Bethlehem and on the fringes of other areas. The Palestinians have set a
full withdrawal as a condition for any cease-fire negotiations, while the
Israelis have demanded that the Palestinians take measures to prevent attacks
from those areas.

Ahmed Qurei, a senior Palestinian negotiator known as Abu Ala, also said after
General Zinni met with Yasir Arafat in Ramallah that on Monday the American
envoy would preside over a meeting of Israeli and Palestinian officials to set a
timetable for implementing the American disengagement proposals known as the
Tenet plan.

The plan, proposed by George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence,
calls on both sides to resume the positions they held when the current fighting
broke out on Sept. 28, 2000, and undertake extensive cooperation over security.

It was not immediately clear whether a cease-fire would be announced at the
Monday meeting, but that was seen as a strong possibility.

If a cease-fire was announced, the breakthrough would coincide with the arrival
of Vice President Dick Cheney, who has been touring Arab capitals in search of
support for action against Saddam Hussein of Iraq. Mr. Cheney is to meet with
Israeli leaders but it remains unclear whether he will meet with Palestinians.

Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel told his cabinet: "The
aim at this stage is to arrive as soon as possible at a cease-fire and the
implementation of Tenet. If there is fire during talks on a cease-fire, we will
act accordingly."

On Saturday Mr. Sharon indicated he was prepared to take part in a three-way
meeting, so long as the Palestinian present was not Mr. Arafat, whom the Israeli
leader dismissed as a negotiating partner three months ago. Mr. Sharon also
created some confusion when he said the meeting would be held today, a statement
he retracted after it was denied by the Americans. The reason for the confusion
was not known.

General Zinni's schedule today included attendance at church services, a meeting
with the Israeli president, Moshe Katzav, and a meeting with Mr. Arafat this
evening at his headquarters in Ramallah.

The relative lull that General Zinni, a retired marine, brought to the region
when he arrived Thursday was challenged today by the two attacks.

In the first, a lone Palestinian gunman opened fire in Kfar Saba, in central
Israel, killing an 18-year-old Israeli high school student and wounding several
other people before he was shot dead. The Aksa Martyrs Brigades, a group linked
to Mr. Arafat's Fatah movement, claimed responsibility.

Less than two hours later, a suicide bomber detonated his charge near a bus stop
in northern Jerusalem that had been the target of at least two previous attacks.
The bomb spattered a bus with blood but wounded only one woman. The Islamic
Jihad organization, a militant Muslim group, claimed responsibility in a
statement received by the Reuters news agency in Beirut.

General Zinni was at a meeting with Mr. Katzav when the gunman struck in Kfar
Saba. The general issued a statement condemning both terror attacks, saying it
was "critical" for the Palestinian Authority to act against terror.

"These attacks will not deter my efforts to continue to work with both sides to
bring the Israeli-Palestinian confrontation to an end," he said.

In Bethlehem, Israeli tanks rumbled back toward the city center today, provoking
heavy exchanges of fire. Palestinian medics said one Palestinian was killed.

The Israeli Army also said two Palestinians were shot dead in Gaza while trying
to plant a bomb.

Israel warned that more attacks were imminent. A high alert was issued for
Nahariya, in the north, prompting the mayor to close down all schools and cancel
school trips.

General Zinni's chances for success were the subject of considerable
speculation, with most commentators giving him 50-50 odds at best.

Though all indications were that he would achieve his immediate goal of a
cease-fire, the larger challenge was to make it stick through the extraordinary
mutual distrust and hostility generated over the past 18 months, and the
byzantine politics on both side.

The Palestinians and Israelis project very different ideas of what they expect
next.

The Palestinians have insisted that any negotiations on security measures must
be accompanied by political negotiations.

Mr. Sharon has made it equally clear that he intends to forestall political
talks as long as possible, because any such negotiations would immediately put
pressure on him for territorial concessions he is not prepared to make.

Though he has announced a negotiating team, led by Foreign Minister Shimon
Peres, officials in Mr. Sharon's office were quoted in Yediot Ahronot as saying
that the team would be authorized to discuss only cease-fire-related issues.
Israel Radio also reported that Mr. Sharon told his cabinet that the goal was to
get a cease-fire and implementation of the American programs for disengagement,
and that only then would diplomatic negotiations begin.

"In my eyes the plan that we can discuss after the implementation" of the
American plans "is a long-term one, in stages, with no timetable," Mr. Sharon
was quoted by Israel Radio as telling his cabinet. "We haven't discussed this,
but this is my view."

But Mr. Arafat is not likely to accept any such delay, especially because he
reportedly felt he had already scored a major symbolic victory over Mr. Sharon
just by publicly meeting with General Zinni. Three months ago, Mr. Sharon had
restricted his longtime nemesis to Ramallah and proclaimed him irrelevant, even
acknowledging that he wished he had killed Mr. Arafat years ago. Then, two weeks
ago, Mr. Sharon declared that the way to bring Palestinians to the negotiating
table was to batter them.

But now Mr. Arafat seems to be back in charge, and it is Mr. Sharon who is in
political trouble with his volatile coalition government, where right-wing
ministers sharply criticized the prime minister's decision to negotiate with the
Palestinians at all. Public opinion polls also trace a steady decline in Mr.
Sharon's standing.

On the Palestinian side, by contrast, a survey conducted by An Najah university
in Nablus found that 87 percent of Palestinians surveyed were in favor of
continuing terror attacks, 87.5 percent were in favor of "liberating all of
Palestine" and 64.5 percent opposed General Zinni's mission.

That suggested that Mr. Arafat would not easily abandon his demand for
substantive political negotiations.

Mr. Peres, the foreign minister, acknowledged in a radio interview that Israel's
position was damaged by the intense military incursion into Palestinian areas
over the past two weeks.

"Our entrance into the refugee camps created very difficult images, and it
cannot be denied that they damaged Israel's position severely," Mr. Peres said.
"It is our duty, just as the army learns lessons in the area of security, that
the political echelons learn lessons in the diplomatic area."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman was wounded yesterday when a suicide bomber detonated
his charge near a bus stop in Jerusalem. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York
Times) Map of Israel highlighting Kfar Saba: A Palestinian gunman killed a high
school student in Kfar Saba.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             564 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 2, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

MIDEAST TURMOIL: THE PROTESTS;
Across the Mideast, an Outpouring of Anger and a Show of Support

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1195 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, April 1


Protests against Israel and the United States intensified across the Middle East
today, with the police in Amman and Cairo firing water cannons and repeated
bursts of tear gas to prevent demonstrators, mostly students, from surging
through the streets.

The protests took myriad forms. In Iraq, Saddam Hussein demanded that Arabs take
the unlikely step of cutting off oil sales to the West. In Libya, Col. Muammar
el-Qaddafi led marchers through the streets of the capital, Tripoli, and
challenged the Arab nations bordering Israel to open the frontiers to allow
volunteer fighters to join the Palestinians.

Even in Kuwait, the most uncritical of American allies, the Parliament issued a
statement suggesting that Washington be fairer in dealing with the conflict.

"The Arab masses are on the move," said Taher Masri, a former prime minister of
Jordan. "It's a terrible situation. The regimes were beginning to stabilize, and
the region was moving in the right direction. Now some regimes will suffer."

Not all protests were violent or unruly. Thousands of marchers moved peacefully
through the streets of Khartoum, in Sudan, and demonstrators in Lebanon chanted
outside the American Embassy near Beirut. Outside of Cairo, protests erupted in
various Egyptian cities including Alexandria and Sohag, along the Nile.

The most violent were in Cairo and here in Amman. In Cairo, thousands of
students pushed through the gates of Cairo University and headed for the Israeli
Embassy a few hundred yards away, shouting for Egypt to expel the ambassador and
sever diplomatic ties.

Riot police firing water cannons and tear gas and wielding truncheons drove the
students back after four hours. The police said 9 officers were hit by stones
and 16 protesters were taken to hospitals overcome by tear gas. Thirty
protesters were arrested, the police said.

In Amman, a phalanx of police formed a barrier across the gates of the
University of Jordan to prevent at least 500 protesters from leaving campus,
ultimately water cannons drove them back.

The police here and in Cairo were basically successful in containing the
demonstrations. Life elsewhere appeared calm, and one could easily have passed
the day without realizing there were violent clashes elsewhere.

In the Palestinian refugee camp in the Jebel Hussein neighborhood, the police
skirmished for much of the day with mostly young camp residents. Protesters set
fire to trash containers, leaving thick black smoke billowing above the camp.

Protesters seemed especially galvanized by President Bush's remarks on Saturday.
Men and women across the spectrum of age and economic status said they were
appalled by the picture of Mr. Bush, relaxing on his ranch in a blue jean shirt,
suggesting that Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, do more to stop terrorism
while they watched Israeli tanks smashing through the West Bank and the corpses
left behind by Israeli soldiers.

"Do those Americans live with us on the same earth?" said Wael Hassan, a law
student protesting in Cairo. "Can't this Bush realize what the Israelis have
been doing to the Palestinians for the past 50 years? Well, how could he realize
the pain of the poor Palestinians who are living in the camps while he is
condemning them from his ranch playing with his dogs."

Many Arabs noted a certain contradiction in American policy, with Mr. Bush
occasionally saying he supported a Palestinian state but condemning anyone who
wanted to fight for it.

"He had a limited vocabulary," said Mr. Masri, the retired Jordanian prime
minister who concentrates on human rights for the Arab League. "He kept
repeating terrorism 10 or 20 times and not mentioning occupation. It was as if
the Palestinians are the aggressors."

Watching the melee, Zakaria Idrees, 45, said, "The Arab leaders supported the
war against terrorism like dogs, but for our people they don't do anything to
protect them from the Israelis.

"I called my family in Ramallah," Mr. Idrees said, "and I couldn't stop crying
and I had to hang up because I couldn't listen any more. They have no food, no
medicine and they are scared."

The protests in Jordan reflected the fact that so many residents are
Palestinians with relatives across the Jordan River. Watching the scenes from
there, they want to participate and protest what they see as Arab inaction.

The unions also organized a protest of several hundred people outside their
building, which grew when students fled the campus of the University of Jordan
because they said arrests were being made.

Throughout much of the day, protesters could be heard chanting phrases like
"Let's attack our neighbor" or "Arab leaders, when are you going to learn from
Hezbollah?" The organizers said they had hoped to march through downtown Amman
but were denied a permit, a frequent occurrence.

With Arab leaders weighing whether to call an emergency summit of at least
foreign ministers in Cairo, some chants were against area governments. "No to
the Arab summit! No!" protesters yelled and "Oh Abdullah, son of the Sauds, we
don't want normalization."

Both chants were against the recent summit in Beirut, where Arab leaders
approved support of a peace initiative devised by Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi
Arabia, offering Israel relations with all 22 Arab countries if it withdrew to
its 1967 borders and aided the creation of a Palestinian state.

The Jordanian government has been sensitive to protests wrecking the image of
Jordan as a stable country at a time when it is trying to attract foreign
investment. Recent protests prompted severe censorship, with security officers
confiscating the videotapes of reporters, leaving the demonstrations virtually
unreported locally.

"They tell us we live in a democratic country and we have the right to express
ourselves, but we don't see anything of this democracy that they are teaching us
in school," said Mona Aisha, a 20-year-old science major. "The Jews took our
land and the Jordanians took our voices and I feel like I don't know what to do,
I just feel helpless."

The one group that was given a permit to gather held a candlelight vigil some
250 yards from the American embassy in Amman. "P.L.O., P.L.O., Israel No," they
chanted and "No to the American Embassy, No to the Zionist embassy."

In a sop to public sentiment, various Jordanian officials made statements or
leaked word that the government was considering downgrading relations with
Israel from the ambassador level to the level of charge d'affaires, the No. 2
post. Jordan has kept its embassy in Tel Aviv at that level since the violence
erupted. But here, as in Egypt, officials said they would not break relations
with Israel as long as they felt some minimum dialogue would further the Arab
cause.

In Iraq, Mr. Hussein urged Arab oil producers to adopt economic measures against
Israel and its supporters. Iraq's ruling Baath party called on Arab nations to
wield oil as a weapon, apparently by cutting off supplies to the West as was
done during the Arab-Israeli war in 1973.

But a repeat of 1973 was considered unlikely, mostly because the Arab oil
producers have come to depend solely on oil revenue to keep their public welfare
systems afloat.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The police in Cairo used tear gas yesterday to keep protesters
away from the Israeli Embassy. Thousands of students pushed through the gates of
Cairo University, shouting for Egypt to expel the Israeli ambassador. (Agence
France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             565 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 5, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The President Steps In

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 640 words


With Israeli tanks ripping through every West Bank city, Palestinian gunmen
barricaded in the Church of the Nativity, Lebanese radicals shooting into
northern Israel and civilians afraid of stepping into the street, the Middle
East is under an intolerable siege of violence. Only the United States can force
the sides back from the brink. After an agonizing week of contradictory signals,
the Bush administration stepped forward yesterday to do just that with a pointed
and powerful speech by the president. It came none too soon and, we hope, not
too late.

In reversing himself and announcing that Secretary of State Colin Powell would
go to the region next week, President Bush did not flinch from spelling out
truths that all sides in the region seek to avoid but that need to be stated
explicitly. The Palestinians must abandon their twisted devotion to suicide
bombing or watch their hopes for a state blow up with their young. The Israelis
must withdraw their military from the West Bank, stop humiliating their
neighbors and accept that peace can come only from an end to occupation. The
Arab states must fight terror, promote economic development in Palestine and
move forward with their recent offer to recognize Israel. Finally, Iran had
better stop arming Palestinian Islamic militants and Syria needs to decide which
side in this quite serious war on terror it is on.

That, in sum, is Mr. Bush's newly articulated vision for how to move forward in
the Middle East, and we welcome it. It clarifies what was a rather confused
policy until now and signals a reversal of an ill-advised hands-off approach
that characterized his first 14 months in office. It was always illusory to
think that the Palestinians and Israelis needed simply to tire of their mutual
antagonism before returning to negotiations. Firm, focused American intervention
over a period of months is the only path, and Mr. Bush appears now to grasp that
difficult truth.

Only last Saturday, in the wake of four suicide bombings inside Israel, Mr. Bush
was expressing understanding for Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's decision to call
up 20,000 reserve soldiers and root out Palestinian terrorist networks that the
Palestinian Authority had permitted -- if not encouraged -- to flourish. No one
could blame Israel for its fury, but the decision to mount a major military
offensive was a bad one.

The sense in the White House now is that in the last week, Israel has had a
chance to make its military point and round up suspected terrorists. At the same
time, the Egyptians have downgraded their relations with Israel; the Jordanians,
with rioting in the streets to demand that the Israeli ambassador be sent
packing, may do the same; and the Lebanese border has again grown dangerous. In
other words, a tipping point is being reached. Israel has a right to defend
itself against terror, the administration is saying, but not at the cost of
regional chaos.

Secretary Powell has the unenviable task of seeking to persuade the leaders of
the region to take painful but necessary steps. If Mr. Powell is to make
progress, Mr. Sharon must begin immediately to withdraw his military from the
West Bank and link a political solution to a cease-fire. As to the Palestinians,
real leadership, not overheated talk of victimhood, is required to end terror
and restart negotiations. Other Arab leaders, notably President Hosni Mubarak of
Egypt, Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and King Abdullah of Jordan, can
help Mr. Powell by pressing the Palestinians to end their terror attacks and
start building better relations with Israel.

This process is not going to be easy or fast. It will require enormous patience
and work by all parties, including the Bush administration. A fine vision has
been laid out. Without a sustained effort, however, the vision will not be
realized.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             566 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 6, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

MIDEAST TURMOIL: DEMONSTRATIONS;
ARAB PROTESTERS FOCUS IRE ON U.S.

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, April 5


Protesters breached the walls of the American Embassy in the tiny Persian Gulf
island kingdom of Bahrain today, smashing windows and burning vehicles before
retreating under a hail of tear gas and rubber bullets shot by policemen aided
by American marines.

There were protests across the Muslim world, underscoring the risks facing
moderate governments in Muslim countries as the Israeli offensive drags on.

Officials in those countries say the result could be to undermine American goals
in the region, like challenging the Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein and
pursuing terrorism suspects.

Bahrain, for example, is the home port of the United States Fifth Fleet, so any
threat to the stability of the country could also threaten a vital American
interest.

The demonstration in Manama, Bahrain, was the fiercest of the protests. It
appears to have been fueled by local anger after the American ambassador, Ronald
Neumann, attended a model United Nations program at a school earlier this week.

A student asked the assembly to stand to observe a moment of silence for the
Palestinians, the State Department said. At the end of the moment, Mr. Neumann
suggested that they remain standing for the Israeli victims of suicide bombings.

An abridged account of the incident, making it appear that the ambassador was
paying respect only to the Israelis, ricocheted across the region.

The episode was viewed as emblematic of the United States pursuing a biased,
one-sided approach to the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

So far the moderate governments have been able to navigate the roiling waters
between the mood on their streets and their relationship with Washington. But
all of them are hoping desperately that President Bush's commitment to increased
involvement will bring a measure of relief.

Jordan's prime minister, Ali Abu al-Ragheb, noting that his country had
experienced about 200 demonstrations in the last week, warned that protests
ending in chaos could harm the country.

"We are confident that our interior situation is stable and that our people are
aware that Jordan's stability is important," he said in an interview on
Jordanian television. "A strong Jordan is more capable of supporting its
brothers in Palestine."

American officials say the growing intensity of protests helped prompt Mr. Bush
to announce a new plan to try to forge a cease-fire.

Despite attempts by governments to ban or at least limit such marches, there
were protests today in Cairo, Beirut, Amman, Tunis and even Dhahran, Saudi
Arabia.

Abdel Qader Abdel Khazem, an Amman prayer leader who whipped up a crowd before a
violent demonstration today, captured the gist of the problem facing Arab
governments.

"O Arab leaders," he intoned, "your people are boiling like water in a pot. You
have to take them on your side against your enemy before they turn against you."

In today's march in normally sleepy Bahrain, where protests began a week ago,
2,000 to 3,000 people gathered outside the embassy walls and started throwing
stones, said Eliza Koch, a State Department spokeswoman.

About 20 of them managed to get over the walls, smashing windows and burning two
or three vehicles before being driven out, she said. The embassy was closed
today, the Muslim day of prayer, and also is closed on Saturdays.

The marines assigned to guard the embassy were forced to use tear gas, a State
Department official said, after which the crowd largely dispersed. Local reports
said the police had then fired repeated rounds of tear gas and rubber bullets to
keep the protesters from regrouping and again charging into the smoke-filled
compound.

The episode involving Mr. Neumann upset officials across the Arab Middle East.
One Bahraini newspaper suggested that he apologize publicly.

Ms. Koch of the State Department said, "We fully support Ambassador Ronald
Neumann in his judgment and in his defense of a principle."

Throughout the region, though, there is a growing sense that the United States
should be considered as much a threat to Arab interests as the Israelis.

"America is becoming equally the enemy in the minds of so many people," said
Taher Masri, a former Jordanian prime minister.

Indeed, President Bush's remarks on the Middle East on Thursday, despite
agreeing with many demands of the Palestinian people, did little to calm the
angry public mood, because Arabs felt that he had denigrated the besieged
Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat.

In Amman, a sudden change to brilliant spring weather after days of chilly rain
and fog brought out protesters by the thousands.

"Our late king said we live in democracy and we should make our own decisions --
our decision is to be against Bush," shouted Mr. Abdel Khazem, the prayer leader
at Qaluti Mosque, a handsome square limestone structure with a brilliant white
dome that sits a little over half a mile from the Israeli Embassy.

"Mr. Bush was telling us what is a martyr yesterday," he said, referring to the
president's remarks on Thursday that suicide bombers should be considered
murderers. "God forbids Bush from telling us who is a martyr."

He added: "Bush was telling us yesterday that he is sending to the Arab
countries his foreign minister. Do you think the Arab countries are your ranch,
you dog?"

After the sermon ended, the commanders of hundreds of police officers wearing
helmets and carrying riot shields warned the worshipers and others gathered in
the neighborhood to remain calm.

The Interior Ministry reiterated a ban on all marches the night before.

"We understand your feelings," the police commander said through a megaphone.
"We don't want sedition. Please stay where you are and shout the slogans you
want and don't move."

The crowd in the middle-class neighborhood was mixed at that point: mostly angry
young men, but with a fringe of young families with children in strollers. They
had arrived with balloons in the colors of the Palestinian flag, which they
released skyward.

After milling around briefly, thousands of young men surged toward the line of
police officers blocking the route to the embassy, and mayhem ensued.

The police fired salvo after salvo of tear gas and roared into the crowd, backed
up by a water cannon. Choking, gagging protesters escaped by scrambling across
the well-clipped lawns and flower gardens of the neighborhood, often clambering
onto roofs, where they hurled stones and plastic garden furniture down at the
police.

The police responded by shattering the glass front doors of apartment buildings
with their truncheons and charging in, beating every protester in their path and
arresting scores.

"This is a farce!" screamed Fida Muhammad, a 23-year-old student.

"That is all Arab armies are good for -- beating women, not the Jews. They have
always been like that. We need an Arab army to protect us too and to fight, not
to kill us and protect the Arab leaders."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters burned a security post outside the United States
Embassy in Manama, Bahrain, and flew a Palestinian flag on top of the embassy's
wall. (Associated Press); Turkish police officers sprayed water yesterday on a
pro-Palestinian demonstration held after prayers at the Beyazit Mosque in
Istanbul. Below, hundreds of marchers rallied in Jakarta, Indonesia, for the
fourth day of protests against Israeli military actions in the West Bank.
(Reuters); (Associated Press)(pg. A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             567 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 8, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

MIDEAST TURMOIL: PERSIAN GULF;
Death in Bahrain Brings Demand That U.S. Leave

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 975 words

DATELINE: MANAMA, Bahrain, April 7


Muhammad Jumaa, a 24-year-old hospital worker, died today, two days after being
shot in the head at a demonstration that penetrated the grounds of the American
Embassy here, his death feeding a brooding resentment of the extensive American
presence on this Persian Gulf island.

"America's blind support for Israel and its silence encourage Israel to kill
more Palestinians, just as America did in Afghanistan and Iraq," said Ibrahim
Abdullah, one of a steady stream of mourners who made their way to the dead
man's dusty grave on the edge of a poor village populated by Shiite Muslims just
north of Manama, the capital.

The men and women at the graveside echoed the sentiments of thousands of
mourners who marched in the funeral procession earlier in the day. "No American
base in Islamic Bahrain!" they chanted, referring to the United States Fifth
Fleet's headquarters here.

They also demanded that Bahrain expel the American ambassador for what they
consider highly insensitive remarks about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

"The American base is very dangerous here," Mr. Abdullah said. "Because of their
presence we feel crippled. They will stand with the government against the
people. They are against Islam. Americans hate Islam."

Mr. Jumaa, by all accounts a quiet man who was engaged to be married in
February, died of internal bleeding two days after he was shot 30 yards from the
embassy.

There are conflicting reports about whether he was hit by a tear gas canister or
a rubber bullet and whether the fatal shot came from the embassy itself or was
fired by the Bahraini police.

His family contends that the shot came from the embassy grounds, but in a brief
statement, the American mission here denied that its Marine guards had shot at
any protesters. It said the guards had resorted to tear gas only after
protesters had scaled the walls of the compound, shattering windows and setting
embassy vehicles on fire.

"In response to this provocation, embassy security personnel fired tear gas
cylinders to compel the intruders to leave the embassy ground," the statement
said. "Embassy personnel did not fire at demonstrators."

Three leading Muslim clergymen on the island and six of its nascent political
groups issued separate statements today demanding an investigation of the
episode as well as the expulsion of the ambassador, Ronald Neumann.

Ambassador Neumann had requested that a model United Nations school assembly
observe a moment of silence for Israeli victims of suicide bombings. His
suggestion came after a student asked the assembly to stand to observe a moment
of silence for the Palestinians.

"While I understand and respect the deeply held anger and frustration that
Bahrainis feel about the events currently taking place in the region," the
ambassador said later in a statement, "it would have been inappropriate for me
to accept being forced into a one-sided demonstration of respect simply because
the conference organization had called for respect only for one side." The State
Department has said it fully backs his decision.

But given the raw mood in the Arab world, the message beamed around Bahrain and
indeed throughout the region was that the Americans were openly siding with the
Israelis, even in death.

"Maybe the ambassador thought what he was doing was fair," said Mansoor
al-Jamri, a former spokesman in exile for the Bahrain Freedom Movement, an
Islamist opposition group, who has come home under a general amnesty. "But to
Muslim people around the world who feel the Americans value them at less than
zero, this sparked everything."

The public anger was evident in graffiti sprayed on this sleepy island's usually
pristine walls during the funeral march. "Death to Sharon!" some of them read,
and "Down With U.S.A!" along with the more striking "Death to al-Khalifa!"

The latter most likely referred to Bahrain's emir, Sheik Hamad bin Isa
al-Khalifa, who moved to calm the public mood today by ordering the interior
minister to begin an immediate investigation of the episode at the embassy.

Until now the Bahraini ruler, scion of a minority Sunni Muslim family that has
ruled over the Shiite majority for more than 200 years, has enjoyed a certain
honeymoon with his people. After succeeding his father in 1999, Sheik Hamad
pardoned the leaders of the Shiite opposition groups who fomented unrest on the
island and began carrying out political reforms that will bring the island's
first parliamentary elections in more than two decades this fall.

The presence of the Fifth Fleet headquarters was not an issue here. Bahrainis
were aware that an aircraft carrier and other vessels assigned to the fleet
helped to patrol southern Iraq and supported the fighting in Afghanistan.

After an initial public distaste for incidents of drunkenness by sailors
prompted the Navy to introduce more stringent discipline, the Americans have
been popular for the money they bring to myriad businesses.

"The Saudis who come here just spend their money on Russian girls," said one
Bahraini. "The Americans go to all the shops, the gold market, and they tend to
be polite."

But political groups began to make the United States presence an issue in
February, when they say the Bahraini government made a ham-handed attempt to
intimidate them by warning that they would be placed on American terrorism watch
lists if they fomented trouble at home.

The American Embassy denied any such prospect. But that incident, followed by
the Israeli offensive in the West Bank and the ambassador's remarks, suddenly
made Americans very much an issue.

"The people want the government to close the embassy and to remove the American
soldiers from Bahrain," said Hassan Mansour, 30, who visited Mr. Jumaa's grave,
decorated with the Palestinian flag and that of the militant Lebanese group
Hezbollah. "They are undesired people here. We feel very angry."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muhammad Jumaa's body, being taken from a morgue for burial.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             568 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

MIDEAST TURMOIL: DEMONSTRATIONS;
At Least 2 Killed in Egypt and Yemen as Protests Mount

BYLINE:  By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 9


At least two people were killed and hundreds more were injured today as
increasingly violent protests against the Israeli occupation of Palestinian
territories roiled the Arab world.

In Egypt, a university student was reported killed and more than 100 other
people were injured when the police fired buckshot, tear gas and water cannons
to quell one of several large, angry demonstrations timed to coincide with a
visit by the American secretary of state, Colin L. Powell.

Another protester was reported killed in the port city of Aden during one of two
large protests that shook Yemen. News services reported that as many as 300,000
people took part in a demonstration in the capital, Sana.

In Jordan, the charismatic young queen, Rania, led about 2,000 people through
the streets of Amman -- a telling sign of the pressure on more moderate Arab
governments to show their solidarity with the Palestinians.

"If things do not improve, there will be more to come," the spokesman of the
League of Arab States, Hesham Youssef, said in an interview. "We cannot accept
that for Israel, with all of its military force, killing civilians in the
occupied territories is self-defense."

In Lebanon, protesters burned Israeli, American and British flags, along with an
effigy of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel carrying a little doll
resembling President Bush. In Bahrain, where protesters hurled gasoline bombs at
cars outside the United States Embassy last Friday, King Sheikh Hamad issued a
stern warning that such violence would not be tolerated.

Perhaps the most striking episode today was in the Egyptian port city of
Alexandria, where, by most accounts, university students provoked one of the
most violent political moments in the recent memory of this rigidly controlled
country.

About the time that Mr. Powell was finishing lunch in Cairo with President Hosni
Mubarak, about 7,000 students at the University of Alexandria tried to march off
their campus and into the streets. Some witnesses said the students were headed
for an American cultural center, but that could not be confirmed.

"There were police in civilian clothes," one witness, Rasha Kamal, said in a
telephone interview. "They were trying to stop the students from leaving the
campus. That's when the students started throwing stones at the police forces,
and when the whole violence erupted."

Ms. Kamal, who was just leaving work at the city's newly built library when the
clashes erupted about 3:30 p.m., said she was told by medical students that two
protesters had been killed. A hospital worker and other witnesses also said that
two students had been shot to death, but the government confirmed only one
death.

In a statement tonight, the Egyptian Interior Ministry, said it "understands the
feelings of the students who are expressing their sentiment toward the barbaric
Israeli aggression against the Palestinians.

"Everyone has been given the opportunity to demonstrate within safe limits," the
ministry said. "But on April 9, the feelings escalated and some leftist elements
managed to deviate this freedom of expression from its proper path."

The ministry said that when the police tried to stop the activists, they began
throwing rocks and bottles, injuring 33 officers and damaging stores and
vehicles in the area. "We will not be tolerant of any attempt to break the law,"
the statement warned, "or any people who try to use the anger to harm the
interests of others or the interests of the state."

The government's chief spokesman, Nabil Osman, discounted the possibility that
political agitators had been behind the violence.

"There is nothing behind this, except their anger at what they see happening on
the screen," Mr. Osman said of the protesters. "This is just an expression of
the anger that these young people feel when they see what is unfolding in the
occupied territories."

According to various reports from hospital workers, government officials and
witnesses, as many as 200 people were hurt, although hospital officials said
most were released after treatment. Other protests took place in the city of
Tanta, in the Nile Delta, and in Cairo, where thousands of students rallied
inside the northern campus of Al Azhar University, an Islamic school.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Queen Rania of Jordan, center, along with two princesses, joined
a demonstration yesterday in Amman. (Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             569 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 11, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

MIDEAST TURMOIL: STUDENTS;
Egyptians Protest Against Israel and U.S., but Fear Takes Edge Off Bravado

BYLINE:  By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: ALEXANDRIA, Egypt, April 10


Just after 2:30 this afternoon, the heavy iron gates of the University of
Alexandria swung open and waves of angry students swept out into the street.

At either end of the wide avenue that runs past the faded yellow brick of the
law school, riot policemen in black helmets fingered their truncheons and
shotguns and their sheathed bayonets.

On Tuesday, at least one student was killed and 200 were injured when the police
fired tear gas, buckshot and rubber bullets into a huge crowd of protesting
students. It was one of the most violent confrontations between Egyptian
protesters and the police in years.

Today, students who had been coming to voice their rage at Israel and the United
States were furious at their own government as well.

Suddenly, as though someone had spun up the volume, the demonstrators broke into
a deafening chant.

"There is no God but Allah!" they cried. "Where is the Arab army?"

Young men and women who had been chatting and sipping soft drinks moments
earlier thickened the crowd, and a student leader rose above it on unseen
shoulders. Besides the dead and the wounded, he shouted, another 58 students had
been jailed and "We will not leave until they are free!"

The protesters surged toward one of the police lines. A couple of rocks arced
out of the crowd. Long metal batons bristled behind the black wall of anti-riot
shields.

Within hours, though, the picture changed dramatically. The tensions had
dissipated and the crowd began to disperse. The demonstration itself had become
a metaphor for how, after half a century of military-backed rule, the Egyptian
government manages still to keep the lid on.

"They breed a lot of fear," an 18-year-old named Mahmoud said of the police.
"There are so many of them; they are like an army."

Fury like that of the young Egyptians has kindled all across the Arab world
since the Israeli Army began its offensive into Palestinian territories two
weeks ago. Indignation at the United States, which is seen as supporting
Israel's assault, has seemed almost as strong, even in places like Alexandria,
which has historically taken some pride in its country's close ties to America.

The extent to which such anger becomes a destabilizing force will depend a great
deal on how well the government of President Hosni Mubarak handles the
frustrations of millions of young people.

At the University of Alexandria, more than 140,000 of the country's brightest
young minds are educated almost free in medicine, law, engineering and other
disciplines. But as Egypt's population grows younger, job opportunities are
eroding.

Symbols of American popular culture are everywhere around them. In Alexandria,
some of the riot police used a Mobil service station as a base; the
demonstrators came at them from beneath a gallery of plastic Coca-Cola and Pepsi
signs.

But from conversations with students, the images that seemed to speak to them
most powerfully were those of their Palestinian counterparts facing down the
American-backed might of the Israeli Army.

"They are galvanized by the images that they see on television," said Abdel
Monem Said, the director of the Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies in Cairo. "They want to be like the rock-throwers."

On Tuesday, some 7,000 or 8,000 students came out to mark a visit to Egypt by
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. The government's unwritten rule is that such
demonstrations are tolerated as long as they can be contained. Marches require a
permit, and permits are not granted to angry students.

But today, the students asked to be allowed to deliver their complaint to the
American Center, a cultural and diplomatic office. Student leaders said a dean
had assured them they could march, but when they tried to proceed, the police
came at them with truncheons, beating women and men indiscriminately.

According to both students and police officers, some protesters answered with
volleys of rocks. The police began firing 12-gauge shotguns with buckshot
cartridges and large rubber bullets, which caused scores of injuries, the death
of a business student and, according to students and a few hospital workers, the
death of a second student.

This afternoon, about one-third as many students filled the avenue in front of
the law school, but were carefully boxed in by the riot police, who waited,
showed off their weaponry, then waited some more.

This time the rock-throwing was quickly stopped by wary student leaders, some of
whom said they were affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood, the country's
largest Islamist group.

There was a call to prayer for the dead and injured, then another about half an
hour later. Again, the dean was dispatched to try to negotiate. He returned
insisting that the authorities had promised a prompt resolution to the fate of
those arrested.

Some demanded a more immediate solution, but after the prayers, another chant
went up. "Peaceful!" the students shouted, "Peaceful!"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at the University of Alexandria marched yesterday to
protest Israel's military thrusts into Palestinian areas. (Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             570 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 14, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Boos: A Mideast Moment

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 127 words


To the Editor:

Frank Rich (column, May 11) pointed to the booing by some of parts of Paul D.
Wolfowitz's speech as evidence that supporters of Israel have become
unreasonable, to the point that they are now seeing their friends as enemies.

I heard Mr.

Wolfowitz's speech at the April rally. In my opinion, he was not "vilified."

Some people did boo parts of his speech, but they were parts that tended to
portray Israeli and Palestinian suffering as morally equivalent, whereas many in
the audience saw Palestinian suffering largely as a result of a Palestinian
leadership that has chosen to achieve its aims through terrorism.

It is worth reporting that many people also applauded at the end of Mr.
Wolfowitz's speech.

MARTIN KIMEL
Chevy Chase, Md., May 13, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             571 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 12, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Castro Calls March Against Bush's Criticism

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 11


President Fidel Castro of Cuba has called for "massive marches" on Wednesday to
protest the Bush administration's hard-line policies against his government and
support a move to declare socialist Cuba "untouchable."

Mr.

Castro announced the demonstrations in a speech on Monday in which he rejected
President Bush's calls for free elections and respect for human rights in Cuba.

"We are not a military power, but a moral and patriotic one," Mr. Castro said,
according to an article today in Granma, the Communist Party newspaper, "a
nation with a profound sentiment of justice and freedom that can only prosper
with this socialist system."

Cuba's economy has been buffeted. Venezuela has suspended much-needed oil
shipments, consumer prices have risen and tourism has been slow. To make up for
a reduced flow of dollars, the government recently began accepting the euro.

But rather than ease his stance against the United States, Mr. Castro been
increasingly defiant.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                             572 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            February 21, 2010 Sunday

Homegrown terror and SIMI connection

BYLINE: Sagnik Chowdhury

LENGTH: 588  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


They announced their arrival in 2008 with a bang, literally, claiming credit for
a series of blasts that shook cities like Delhi, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and the
unexploded bombs in Surat. And they were thought to have been largely
neutralised within months, with a large number of foot soldiers and some leaders
arrested or killed and the rest going underground or fleeing the country. The
Indian Mujahideen seemed to have disappeared from the terror map as mysteriously
as it had emerged on it. But last week's bomb blast in Pune, once an IM hub and
hideout, has focused the spotlight again on the homegrown Islamist terror outfit
even though there is little evidence so far to prove its role in the attack.

The reasons are not hard to comprehend. The Pune attack is the first in 14
months since the November 26, 2008, Lashkar-e-Toiba outrage in Mumbai. While the
larger geopolitical events in the AfPak region and their implications for India
have been obvious for some time now, shades of grey have dominated the database
of security agencies as far as intelligence about what remained of the networks
and sleeper cells of Lashkar and its extension, IM. Top police and intelligence
officials are, in fact, candid in private when asked if IM is history or if it
still retains the ability to spring a surprise like it may have in Pune. Their
answer: "We are not sure".

The answer has its roots in the origin of IM and the form it came to take
through the last decade. Although the name 'Indian Mujahideen' was announced by
the group in one of its chilling e-mails after the Ahmedabad serial blasts, its
network of motivated, young Muslim men spewing hate and willing to avenge real
and perceived atrocities against the community existed for years earlier under
the banner of the outlawed Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). It had a
pan-Indian presence, with strong roots in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala and branches in many more
states.

Guided by a sense of persecution borne out of the demolition of the Babri
Masjid, the Gujarat riots and the US-led war on terror, the extremists of the
SIMI transformed themselves into IM with the aim of emerging as the pre-eminent
Indian Islamist terror group. But the effort was not completely indigenous.
Having closely collaborated with SIMI members in the years before 2008 and used
its men and resources for attacks in India, the Lashkar found it convenient to
fund and nurture Indian Mujahideen as that would give the Lashkar plausible
deniability for future attacks and force Indian security agencies to look more
inward. IM, as a result, slowly spread its tentacles across the country,
recruiting youth for training from as far as Kerala and West Bengal and
displaying its prowess from Varanasi to Bangalore.

It is this network that has security agencies worried, said one senior
intelligence officer. "We have a good sense of where the leaders we haven't been
able to get are hiding. But we do not have a sense of the foot soldiers. They
have gone across for training from as far as Jharkhand, Marathwada, Nalgonda and
Kerala. A large number of Muslim youth are known to have gone missing or have
not been accounted for," said the officer. "We have to build a database of such
men who have gone missing, but it is a very politically sensitive task." That,
security experts say, allows the IM to retain its reputation as a shadowy terror
group that can hit Indian cities with or without prompting from across the
western frontier.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             573 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            December 7, 2014 Sunday

Iowa's Barta backs Ferentz

SECTION: C; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1009 words


IOWA CITY - Iowa athletic director Gary Barta is reiterating his support for
football coach Kirk Ferentz, while acknowledging that the Hawkeyes failed to
live up to expectations this season.

Barta said Saturday that the team's 7-5 season "isn't unacceptable," adding that
success at Iowa is measured by championships. But Barta said Iowa has a strong
foundation under Ferentz, now in his 16th season as head coach.

Ferentz has five seasons left on the 10-year contract extension he signed on the
eve of the 2010 season. It includes a buyout clause of nearly $3 million a year
should Iowa decided to fire Ferentz.

The Hawkeyes (7-5, 4-4 Big Ten) closed the season with home losses to Wisconsin
and Nebraska.

They'll find out which bowl they're headed to today.

Packers' Shields questionable for Falcons

GREEN BAY, Wis. - Sam Shields' availability for Green Bay's game Monday night
against the Atlanta Falcons is in question with the Packers cornerback yet to be
cleared from a concussion. Coach Mike McCarthy said he would give Shields "every
opportunity" to play against the Falcons.

Shields was listed as questionable Saturday on the Packers' final injury report.
The five-year veteran got hurt during last week's win over New England.

McCarthy said that once Shields is cleared, the coaching staff must still
determine if he's ready. The Packers are deep at cornerback, though they
wouldn't mind having Shields back after Atlanta gained 500 yards last week.

hockey

Hossa leads Blackhawks over Preds

NASHVILLE, Tenn. - Marian Hossa scored two goals to lead the Chicago Blackhawks
to a 3-1 win over the Nashville Predators on Saturday. Brandon Saad had a goal
and an assist for Chicago, which won its sixth game in a row and ninth in the
last 10. With the win, the Blackhawks took over the Central Division lead.

golf

Spieth opens up 7-shot lead at Isleworth

WINDERMERE, Fla. - Jordan Spieth rolled in a 50-foot birdie putt on the last
hole to cap off a Saturday at Isleworth that was close to perfect.

Spieth opened with three straight birdies and wound up with a 9-under 63. That
gave the 21-year-old Texan a seven-shot lead over Keegan Bradley and Henrik
Stenson going into today's final round of the Hero World Challenge. Spieth is
coming off a six-shot victory last week in the Australian Open. Bradley had a
65, while Stenson overcame a slow start to post a 68. Tiger Woods had a fever
and nausea, but he rallied late with three straight birdies for a 69. He was in
last place, 20 shots behind.

Donald leads by 1 at Nedbank Challenge

SUN CITY, South Africa - Luke Donald birdied the last hole for a 3-under 69
Saturday to hold on to a one-shot lead after the third round of the Nedbank Golf
Challenge. Donald had been tied with Danny Willett on the leaderboard before his
shot out of the rough and over some trees ended up within four feet of the pin
on the last hole. Donald moved to 13-under 203 overall to sit one shot ahead of
Willett and three ahead of Ross Fisher, as Englishmen made up the top three at
Sun City in the European Tour's 2015 season-opener.

Swimming

Phelps plans to race after suspension ends

Michael Phelps is back in training and will return to competition after his
six-month suspension ends in March. Phelps' coach, Bob Bowman, told The
Associated Press on Saturday that it's not yet known which meets the 18-time
gold medalist will enter once he is eligible.

Phelps was suspended by USA Swimming for his second DUI arrest. He's also banned
from competing at next summer's world championships, but is moving forward with
plans to compete at the 2016 Rio Olympics. A court hearing on his DUI case is
scheduled for Dec. 19.

After completing a six-week in-patient program, Phelps returned to training
under Bowman a couple of weeks ago.

auto racing

Trophies stolen from Red Bull factory

MILTON KEYNES, England - More than 60 trophies won by Red Bull have been stolen
in a burglary at the Formula One team's factory in southern England.

Police said in a statement released by Red Bull that approximately six men were
in a vehicle that was driven through the front entrance of the factory in Milton
Keynes, north of London, early Saturday. Police said night staff on the premises
at the time were not harmed.

soccer

Fans storm Cairo stadium ahead of match

CAIRO - About 2,000 soccer fans stormed Cairo's main stadium Saturday ahead of a
rare match that supporters are allowed to attend, Egypt's Interior Ministry
said. Security officials said they managed to expel fans from the stadium,
confiscating 10 bags containing fireworks and banners. The fans entered after a
truck broke through a stadium gate, they added.

After an outbreak of stadium violence in 2012, most Al-Ahly matches have been
closed to the public. During a match that year in Port Said, 74 people, most Al
-Ahly fans, were killed in a riot.

U.S. in tough group for Women's World Cup

Top-ranked United States drew the toughest group for the Women's World Cup next
year in Canada, and will face Australia in its opening match in Winnipeg on June
8. In addition to 10th-ranked Australia, the Group D included No. 5 Sweden, led
by former U.S. coach Pia Sundhage, and No. 35 Nigeria.

Olympics

Berlin or Hamburg to bid for 2024 Games

DRESDEN, Germany - Berlin or Hamburg will bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics under
plans formally approved Saturday by Germany's National Olympic Committee. The
final choice will be made in March.

Both cities have anti-Olympic movements and authorities plan referendums to gain
popular support for the bid. Germany has not staged an Olympics since the 1972
Summer Games in Munich.

Labor laws broken at Rio Olympic venues

SAO PAULO - Brazil's Labor Ministry said labor laws have been broken and health
and safety standards not met in construction of the Olympic Park and athletes
village for the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. It says workers have been made
to work beyond the two-hour overtime limit, have not been given 11 consecutive
hours of rest between shifts, and not received the mandatory one day off a week.
Electrical flaws were also found.

The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             574 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 539 words


ISRAEL

Gaza airstrike killed militant, medics say

A Palestinian militant was killed and four others were wounded in an Israeli
airstrike Tuesday in the central Gaza Strip, medics and a Palestinian militant
group said.

An Israeli military spokeswoman confirmed the airstrike but gave no further
details. The reported fatality was the first of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
this year. Israel killed six militants in two incidents in Gaza and the occupied
West Bank late last month.

-- Reuters

Housing approved for East Jerusalem

 Israel has approved construction of four apartment buildings in disputed East
Jerusalem, officials said Tuesday, fueling tensions with the Palestinians at a
time when the United States is trying to get peace talks restarted.

The Palestinians claim East Jerusalem for a future capital and demand that all
construction there stop for talks to resume. The 24-unit project in a
predominantly Arab neighborhood is being developed by Irving Moskowitz, an
American who has funded Jewish settlers determined to cement Israel's hold on
contested areas of Jerusalem.

-- Associated Press

IRAN

Contact prohibited with foreign groups

Iran has barred its citizens from contact with 60 foreign organizations,
including universities, pro-democracy groups and broadcasters, accusing them of
waging a "soft war" against the country, state television's Web site quoted the
Intelligence Ministry as saying late Monday, when it published the list.

Among the predominantly U.S.- and British-based organizations listed are the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, George Soros's Open Society
Institute, the American Enterprise Institute and the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, all based in Washington, as well as Yale
University, New York-based Human Rights Watch, the BBC and Voice of America.

Iran has used terms such as "soft war" and "velvet coup" to describe the
country's political opposition. Security forces have cracked down on the
opposition since it alleged that the June reelection of President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad was rigged.

-- Bloomberg News

U.N. halts food aid in southern Somalia: The U.N. food agency suspended the
distribution of aid in southern Somalia because of attacks on its employees, a
decision affecting as many as 1 million people in the lawless Horn of Africa
nation. At least 43 aid workers were killed between January 2008 and fall 2009,
according to the United Nations. Four remain in captivity.

Colombia extradites alleged money launderer to U.S.: Colombia sent a man whose
pyramid schemes sparked riots there to the United States to face charges that he
laundered millions of dollars of proceeds from cocaine trafficking. David Murcia
was due to appear in a U.S. district court in Florida before being transferred
to New York for prosecution.

Blair to face Iraq war inquiry within weeks: Former British prime minister Tony
Blair will make his highly anticipated appearance before an official inquiry
into the Iraq war in late January or early February, the inquiry team said. The
panel will hold a ballot to allocate public seats for the occasion, while a
third of the 60 or so available spaces will be allocated to families of soldiers
killed in the war.

-- From news services

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Khalil Senosi/associated Press; KENYA Kenyans walk toward
central Nairobi on the second day of a strike by the drivers of matatus (minivan
taxis) to protest police shakedowns.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             575 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 30, 2015 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

TV show aims to stay relevant to community

BYLINE: Arelis R. HernÃ¡ndez

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1628 words


The worried face of then-D.C. Mayor Sharon Pratt Dixon flashed on the television
screen, right after images of a torched vehicle, shirtless looters celebrating
atop an overturned police cruiser, officers slamming a person against a car and
a photo of the Latino man whose shooting by police had provoked three days of
riots.

"What steps have been taken to address this grave situation?" a Spanish-speaking
narrator says dramatically. "Today on 'Linea Directa.' "

That show, on a July day in 1991, remains one of the most-watched ever in the
25-year history of "Linea Directa," which began as a series of unpolished public
service announcements and has become the go-to news show for the region's
growing and upwardly mobile Latino community.

As its name indicates, the show is and has been a direct line of communication
for immigrants, mostly from Central America, and, to a lesser extent, their
U.S.-born children.

But with the maturation of this community comes questions about how to stay
relevant to 800,000 people, more and more of whom are comfortable speaking
English and can fluently mine the Internet and myriad other sources for news and
information.

"It is our dream that there are more and more young people who don't need to
watch it," said "Linea Directa" creator Eduardo Lopez. "Our goal is for them to
choose the life in this country they want. For that to happen, their parents
needed the information to get them there."

Lopez immigrated to the United States as a child in 1967, after his parents'
divorce, settled in Silver Spring, Md., with his mother, and graduated from
Montgomery Blair High School and Syracuse University.

After college, Lopez wanted to create programming that would be helpful to the
immigrants who were fleeing El Salvador's civil war. In 1984, he pitched his
idea to the D.C. Mayor's Office of Latino Affairs, under then-Mayor Marion
Barry: A show "looking at everyday life in the United States, so that new
immigrants can learn how people live here."

"I just felt a need to do it," Lopez said. "And it became the mission of my
life."

The earliest version of the program took two years to come to fruition. Working
with a young Colombian broadcaster, Arturo Salcedo, and using borrowed equipment
and family members as actors, the partners began recording 30-second public
service announcements in Spanish on everything from fire prevention to
counseling for alcoholism.

The spots covered how to use seat belts, enroll children in school and access
publicly funded health care - information that was hard for new immigrants to
obtain in an era when government agencies rarely had materials written in
Spanish, or employees fluent in the language. The spots eventually were
broadened into a half-hour news show that the local Univision station included
in its prime-time lineup on Wednesdays and Saturdays.

The first episode aired in January 1990, about six months before the riots. It
featured a young Maria Gomez, founder of Mary's Center in Washington's Adams
Morgan neighborhood, talking about the services available to pregnant
immigrants.

"Women were having babies in bed, in their homes," Gomez, in her 50s and still
running Mary's Center, recalled in a recent interview. "People were suffering
and being exploited because they did not have basic information."

"Linea Directa" won awards, and at one point was thought to be reaching nearly
half of all Spanish speakers in the metropolitan market. Compared with the
comedy shows and telenovelas that were the other staples of Spanish-language
programming, the show was a serious and relevant source of news for Latinos
during a tumultuous period.

The Mount Pleasant riots erupted on a Sunday, after Officer Angela Jewell shot
Daniel Gomez, and rumors spread that the Salvadoran immigrant was handcuffed
when he was shot. By that Thursday, Pratt (D), as she is now known, was looking
for a way to repair relations with the Latino community. Her staff booked her on
"Linea Directa."

The riots "made an invisible community visible," recalls Pedro Aviles, a
longtime community activist who led the Latino Civil Rights Task Force that
Pratt commissioned after the unrest. "The Latino community coalesced into a
single voice and into an articulated agenda that we pushed for the next five or
six years."

But as the initial crisis passed, D.C. government was consumed by other
problems. Because of operational dysfunction and fiscal disarray in the city,
power was transferred to a federally appointed Financial Control Board.

Lopez and Salcedo were laid off and the show was canceled because of D.C.
government budget cuts in 1994. The men founded a nonprofit organization and
solicited grants and donations. They were back on the air eight months later.

"They were always trying to see how they could stay alive," said Ana
Sol-Gutierrez, who served on the board of the group that funded the show, EVS
Communications, and now serves as a state delegate representing Montgomery
County. "For many years, they simply did not pay themselves."

Lopez, a self-described workaholic who acted as the show's producer, slowed down
only in 2012, when he was diagnosed with Stage 3 melanoma that is now in
remission.

Salcedo, the host, said he turned down other job offers and put "Linea Directa"
ahead of everything, including his family. When his now-former wife became
pregnant, an overjoyed Salcedo went to tell Lopez, who turned pale. " 'What
about the show?' he asked me," Salcedo recalled. "We couldn't take a day off."

What sustained them, they said, was the knowledge that they were having an
impact - the stories of women who escaped domestic violence because of what they
learned from the show, or the man who sought a cancer screening, or the wife who
offered them a few crumpled dollars in gratitude after her frequently drunk
husband was spooked by an episode on driving under the influence.

When AIDS became an epidemic, the show's hosts promoted condom use. When renters
were being exploited by landlords, the show explained tenant protection laws. As
Latino activists became more prominent, and in some cases launched political
careers, " 'Linea Directa' was a place where . . . we could get air," said
Mauricio Alarcon, a former community activist and local educator.

In 2000, Univision dropped "Linea Directa." But Telemundo - which would soon be
acquired by NBC Universal - picked it up. The station donated studio time and
lent staff members to produce the weekly show, funds for which still came from
the EVS foundation. There are no commercials.

In 2006, Salcedo left the show to care for his parents. Former Colombian
television reporter Andrea Sarralde, who was working for Telemundo in
Washington, stepped in. As large numbers of Latinos started buying homes, he
talked about mortgage fraud. As more Latinos registered to vote and ran for
office, the show focused on options for political engagement.

At first, the only Latino politicians to invite on the show were Gutierrez and
Arlington County Board member J. Walter Tejada (D). Then came Montgomery County
Council member Nancy Navarro (D), Del. Marice Morales (D-Montgomery), Del. Deni
Taveras (D-Adelphi) and more.

They discussed legislation affecting undocumented immigrants, bills proposing
paid sick leave and minimum-wage increases and, always, the need to register to
vote and turn out at the polls.

"Not voting is a crime," Del. Joseline PeÃ±a-Melnyk (D-Prince George's), who is
running for Congress, said recently in an emotional plea. Although the number of
eligible Hispanic voters has increased over the years, registration remains
flat, and turnout nationwide is lower than for any other ethnic group, according
to the Pew Hispanic Center.

"Linea Directa" "has grown with our community," said Nicole Quiroga, general
manager of Telemundo Washington. "Twenty years ago, the [show] might have been
more instructional, and now it's more conversational."

But as Latinos become better established in the United States, the future of
"Linea Directa" is uncertain. The program depends on grants from local
governments and partnerships with other organizations such as the AFL-CIO. It
routinely falls short of its fundraising goals.

Wendy Thompson, president emerita of "Linea Directa's" nonprofit foundation and
the former general manager of Telemundo, says she would like to see the show
replicated nationwide, in communities with large Latino populations.

But Lopez thinks that what "Linea Directa" does is so rare and relevant in
today's Spanish-speaking media world that he adheres rigidly to the objective:
providing basic information to Hispanics on how to live in the Washington
region.

That worked well for the Latinos who came to this country in recent decades. But
with immigration slowing, government agencies and private business offering more
information in Spanish, and the children of immigrants growing up fluent in
English, it is not clear how long the need will last.

"Who will support it? It doesn't make money," Salcedo said. "I don't know any
politician or corporation who understands an iota of the work we've done."

For the moment, at least, there is plenty to talk about, especially with a
political climate that Lopez describes as more negative for Latinos than any he
has seen since starting the show.

And so he brings on activists such as Sonia Gutierrez, who founded an adult
English instruction school in the District; artists such as poet Juan Emilio
Pacheco; and undocumented immigrant students known as Dreamers - all in an
effort, he said, to demonstrate more than a one-dimensional view of Latinos.

" 'Linea Directa' helps the community understand," Lopez said, "that despite any
offensive attack that we are contributing positively every day, and they can
improve their lives."

arelis.hernandez@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2015 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             576 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            August 11, 2001 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Italian Police Feel Backlash From G-8 Summit Violence;
EU Officials Urge Thorough Probe, Propose New Force

BYLINE: Keith B. Richburg, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: PARIS Aug. 10


The force used by Italian police to break up demonstrations at last month's
Group of Eight summit in Genoa has prompted an international outcry and much
soul-searching among European Union leaders who say police brutality has no
place in modern Europe.

Police were unable to quell the riots, during which one protester was fatally
shot, more than 200 were injured and 300 were arrested. Photographs and
videotapes show police beating and kicking protesters who were on the ground.

In one of the bloodiest incidents, police raided a school housing some of the
demonstrators, beating them and throwing them down stairwells. Dozens of
protesters were hospitalized, and one required brain surgery. Television footage
showed blood-smeared walls and floors after the police raid.

Europeans have become accustomed to violent protests by people calling
themselves anarchists who disrupt summits; only a month earlier, police in
usually placid Sweden shot and wounded two demonstrators outside an EU meeting.
But the behavior of the Italian police at Genoa prompted criticism even from
those who usually condemn the anarchists for turning otherwise peaceful
anti-globalization protests into riots.

A parliamentary inquiry has been launched in Italy, and the national police
chief, Gianni De Gennaro, said Wednesday that some of his men may have acted
excessively. "The guerrilla-like conditions created by violent instigators in
some cases provoked excessive use of force by police units; that may be true,"
he said. "In some other very isolated cases, there was unlawful conduct [by
police], which will be rigorously looked into."

German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer urged Italy to fully investigate
possible police misconduct. President Thomas Klestil of Austria has appealed for
the release of members of an Austrian theater company called Publix Theatre
Caravan who are still being held in jail. The State Department has expressed
concern for Susanna Thomas, a Bryn Mawr student who worked part time for the
theater company, and three other Americans also being held.

Thomas, who was described by family members as a Quaker and pacifist, decided to
remain in Europe at the end of her junior year to research a senior thesis idea,
"the spiritual roots of nonviolence and social activism." She was arrested and
charged with being part of a violent radical group.

The backlash from Genoa has prompted the Italian government to ask the U.N. Food
and Agriculture Organization to move its planned November meeting to discuss
world hunger from Rome to Africa, to avoid more street protests. Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi was quoted as saying at a meeting of his governing
center-right party that Italy "had given enough with the G-8."

An informal meeting of NATO ministers remains scheduled for late September in
Naples, despite concerns that it, too, might attract demonstrators riled over
the police actions at Genoa.

The repeated scenes of bloody street battles have been an affront to many
Europeans who have come to see their societies as more consensual and less prone
to violence than the United States. The left-of-center governments holding power
in most European capitals like to believe that they sympathize with many of the
concerns of the peaceful protesters -- such as protecting labor rights and
ensuring environmental safeguards. European leaders have repeatedly tried to
hold pre-summit "dialogues" with protest groups to try to defuse the tensions in
advance.

But the specter of roving bands of demonstrators, moving across Europe following
summit meetings, has prompted the German and Italian interior ministers to push
for creation of a special pan-European anti-riot force. Germany's Otto Schily
and Italy's Claudio Scajola agreed last Saturday that such a force should be
trained to help manage large demonstrations that now occur regularly around EU
meetings and attract people from the United States, Canada and other non-EU
countries.

The protesters are said to come mainly from a collection of anarchist groups
using a sometimes violent tactic they call "black bloc," targeting banks,
multinational stores and other symbols of what they see as unfettered world
capitalism.

The need for an anti-riot force was underscored both by the disturbances in
Genoa and the riots surrounding the EU's summit in Goteborg, Sweden, in June.
Investigations showed that Swedish police were woefully unprepared for the scale
and violence of the demonstrations that turned parts of the picturesque town
into something resembling a battle zone.

The police were forced to fire their side arms because they had no other type of
crowd control equipment, such as water cannons and rubber bullets. In Sweden, it
is illegal for police to use tear gas against protesters.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                             577 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 17, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Post-Hurricanes, Is the Caribbean Open for Business?

BYLINE: Cindy Loose, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Travel; P01

LENGTH: 1488 words


The images of successive hurricanes slamming the Caribbean have scared off
tourists in droves, forcing even resorts not remotely touched to offer deals.

The devastation in Grenada, Haiti, Grand Cayman and two islands in the Bahamas
has been well-documented. What's missing from the reports is the non-news: the
rest of the Caribbean islands, which either escaped altogether or suffered only
scattered or minimal damage.

"Anytime something of this magnitude hits any part of the Caribbean, it has an
impact on the whole region because people don't have the perspective of how huge
the area is, or how localized storm damage can be," said Richard Kahn, head of
the Caribbean Tourism Organization (CTO).

The islands of the Caribbean are spread out over more than a thousand miles, the
same distance between Florida and Maine, Kahn notes. Even so, misperceptions
have so affected bookings that resorts throughout the region are offering deals.

"Sales and promotions are coming out of the woodwork," says Kahn. Although deals
are common for the soft shoulder season of October and November, the deals are
bigger and more numerous than usual, he said, and many of them remain good until
mid-December or so, the start of peak season.

When the CTO asked its members to e-mail The Washington Post with examples, we
were overwhelmed with responses. Typically, hotels and resorts offering deals
are discounting rates by at least 20 percent; adding free nights to a stay; or
tacking on benefits, such as a free car rental, spa treatments or activities.

The Caribbean area was first hit in late August with Hurricane Charley, and in
the following September weeks was slammed in quick succession by Frances, Ivan
and Jeanne. The islands that escaped all four monsters unscathed include:
Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands,
Curacao, Dominica, Guadeloupe, St. Bart's, St. Martin/St. Maarten, Martinique,
Montserrat, Puerto Rico, St. Eustatius, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Trinidad
and Tobago, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, according to the CTO. Bermuda, which is
not in the Caribbean, was also unaffected.

Most are trying to counter the hurricane fallout with deals. With few
exceptions, deals are good until Dec. 15 or 20, before the Christmas holiday
rush. Kahn said only time will tell if resorts will be forced to extend
discounts into the height of winter season.

If you don't care about which island you visit, the best way to find a
pre-Christmas deal is to ask a travel agent. If you already have an island in
mind, contact that island's tourism department for a list of deals. If you are
partial to a particular property, call it directly and ask about special breaks.

Meanwhile, here is a brief sampling of deals on islands not hit by hurricanes.
Some restrictions may apply.

*  The Mount Nevis Hotel and Beach Club in Nevis is offering four nights free
after a four-night stay in a two-bedroom suite with kitchen. That breaks down to
$187.50 per night for a family of four. Info: 800-756-3847,
www.mountnevishotel.com.

*  Arawak Beach Inn in Anguilla is extending its lowest summer rates, beginning
at $99 a night for a double, through Dec. 21 -- a savings of 27 percent over
usual fall rates. Info: 877-427-2925, www.arawakbeach.com.

*   Most resorts in the U.S. Virgin Islands -- St. Thomas, St. Croix and St.
John -- are offering a fifth night free, a $50 American Express check , a coupon
booklet and, when available, a free room upgrade. Rooms must be booked through a
travel agent. Details: 800-372-USVI, www.usvitourism.vi.

*  Rambutan Villa in Virgin Gorda is offering a free SUV rental for seven days
and two in-villa massage or yoga sessions with a seven-day luxury villa booking.
A villa for up to four people rents for $4,550 a week. Info: 284-496-7203,
www.rambutanvilla.com.

*  Deals in Turks & Caicos are numerous, including junior suites at Comfort
Suites (877-424-6423 or 649-946-8888, www.choicehotels.com) for $99 a night -- a
25 percent discount. In addition, you get an extra night if you stay a week and
up to $100 in food and beverage credits, good through Dec. 19. The Alexandria
Resort & Spa is offering a fourth night free after paying daily rates beginning
at $225, plus tax. Info: 649-946-5807.

*  Resorts in St. Kitts are also jumping into the discount fray. For example,
pay for five nights (rates from $69 per night) and get seven at the Angelus
Resort (800-621-1270, www.angelusstkitts.com). Or grab a $69-a-night special at
the Frigate Bay Resort (800-266-2185, www.frigatebay.com), with stays of at
least five nights.

Among the deals being offered on islands hit by one hurricane or more:

*  The Westin and Sheraton at Our Lucaya Beach and Golf Resort on Grand Bahama
Island is offering a 25 percent discount and $50 spa certificate. Doubles at the
Sheraton begin at $109, and $129 at the Westin. At both properties, kids stay
and eat for free. Info: 877-OUR-LUCAYA, www.ourlucaya.com.

*  Air Jamaica has put together several special post-hurricane packages. For
example, fly from BWI to Negril and stay three nights midweek, all-inclusive, at
the ClubHotel Riu Negril for $539, plus tax. An even better deal at a fancier
property: three nights at the all-inclusive Wyndham Rose Hall for $519, plus
tax. Info: 800-LOVEBIRD, www.airjamaicavacations.com.

For those considering a visit to an island that was damaged by the storms,
here's the lowdown on where things stand.

*  Grenada. Although 90 percent of the island's homes and public buildings were
devastated, the airport is open to regional and international flights, as is the
port. If witnessing the damage or helping the island's recovery is part of your
vacation dream, there are a number of hotels that suffered minimal damage and
have already reopened, including Bel Air Plantation, True Blue Bay Resort,
Monmot Hotel and Mariposa Hotel. A few others hope to reopen next month. One
major property, the Blue Horizons GardenResort, hopes to reopen in a few months.
The Spice Island Beach Resort won't be ready for tourists for a year. Details:
www.grenadaemergency.com.

*  Haiti. The island has a limited tourist infrastructure and is currently
struggling to rescue its indigenous population from disaster, including
post-hurricane riots. The U.S. State Department warns that the situation is
dangerous and recommends that Americans avoid non-emergency travel until further
notice.

*  Cayman Islands. Although Little Cayman and Cayman Brac escaped major damage
and are currently open for business, Grand Cayman -- which draws the most
tourists -- was hit hard. Nearly 5,000 visitors were evacuated before Hurricane
Ivan hit, and many major hotels and resorts remain closed. The hotel sector on
Grand Cayman "is tentatively looking at reopening a cross-section of
accommodations in time for the American Thanksgiving," said Minister of Tourism
McKeeva Bush. Yet for now, Grand Cayman is not allowing visitors on the island
for another four to six weeks. Details: 212-889-9009, www.caymanislands.ky.

*  Bahamas. Given that the archipelago stretches 760 miles, it's not surprising
that one island could be hit and another escapes. Of the 700 islands and keys,
two suffered major damage: Grand Bahama Island in the northern Bahamas and the
small Out Island of Abaco. Although the U.S. State Department advises postponing
visits to Grand Bahama until public services are restored, a number of resorts
have already reopened. Some are hoping to do so Nov. 1; others, including the
Viva Wyndham  Fortuna Beach, the Crowne Plaza Golf Resort and Casino at the
Royal Oasis  and the Old Bahama Bay Resort, plan to resume operations in
December. Several properties in Abaco are open; repair work continues on the
remainder. Details: www.bahamas.com.

*  Dominican Republic. The majority of hotels and resorts suffered no or minimal
damage. Ninety percent of them were fully operational within days of Hurricane
Jeanne. Those properties that did close were mostly working on repairing flood
damage to gardens and ground-floor rooms. In Punta Cana, for example, seven of
40 hotels had to clean up flooded gardens and water in some rooms, said Susana
Rosa, a spokeswoman with the Ministry of Tourism. Of those seven resorts, five
remain closed and plan to reopen on or about Nov. 1. Details:
www.dominicanrepublic.com.

*  Jamaica. Although some private homes, farmland and a few hotels in one part
of Negril sustained significant damage, most of the tourist infrastructure was
untouched, reports Paul Pennicook, Jamaica's director of tourism. "If you land
in Montego Bay, you'd have no idea a hurricane had recently occurred," said
Kahn, of the CTO. "You'd have to travel 11/2 hours to the beginning of Negril,
then another half-hour into Negril to see the area that sustained significant
damage." Daily updates on how work is proceeding are posted on the tourism
office's Web site: www.visitjamaica.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


                             578 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (Nigeria)

                            April 29, 2015 Wednesday

Baltimore burning!

BYLINE: Our Reporter

LENGTH: 1060 words


Baltimore, which prides itself as an indepen­dent and the largest city in the
State of Maryland with a population of over 622,000, is the 26th populous city
in the United States. It is the home of the Baltimore's Inner Harbor, second
largest seaport in the Mid-Atlantic, Johns Hopkins University, and Johns
Hop­kins Hospital. Baltimore with [...]

Baltimore, which prides itself as an indepen­dent and the largest city in the
State of Maryland with a population of over 622,000, is the 26th populous city
in the United States. It is the home of the Baltimore's Inner Harbor, second
largest seaport in the Mid-Atlantic, Johns Hopkins University, and Johns
Hop­kins Hospital. Baltimore with 63% Blacks and 32% Whites, is also the home of
two major professional sports, the Bal­timore Orioles Baseball Team and the
Baltimore Ravens Football Team.

But now Baltimore has attracted national and international atten­tion for the
wrong reasons. It is burning! On Monday afternoon and into the night, Baltimore
was engulfed in flames pre­cipitated by another incident of what is considered
as police brutality. The violence followed the funeral of Freddie Gray, 25, who
was in police custody for about 45 minutes on April 12, 2015 and died a week
later. Still, the police has yet to explain the circumstances surrounding Mr.
Gray's death. The commu­nity became enraged for Gray's death and lack of
transparency on the ongoing investigation into his death, which has al­ready
resulted in the suspension of six police officers. However, the suspension was
not enough for the residents who are demand­ing for the officers be arrested and
charged for the death of Mr. Fred­die Gray. So, immediately after his funeral on
Monday, the demonstra­tion that started peacefully erupted into a dangerous
violence that en­gulfed the area.

Some angry protesters set build­ings and cars ablaze, looted and destroyed
businesses, and injured about 20 police officers in the vio­lence that angered a
lot of people who felt that the actions of a very few individuals are
distracting from the major issue--police bru­tality of African-American males.
The city had not witnessed such a massive violence since April 1968 when a
two-week riot broke out in the city following the assassination of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., who said, "A riot is the language of the unheard." The unheard
residents of Baltimore have used the "language" to unearth the simmering rage
over what some people considered as a widespread police brutality against
African-Americans across Ameri­ca which has been boiling beneath the surface
waiting for an incident to spark it.

In an obvious anticipation of continued intense and emotional protests as
Baltimore was on edge for more mayhem, Gov. Larry Ho­gan, the governor of
Maryland signed an executive order to declare a state of emergency and activate
the National Guard. Also, curfew was instituted to curtail the number of
protesters in the city during the nights. So far, the police and the National
Guard have brought the situation under an uneasy control with about 200 arrests
since the protests started.

Understandably, people are frus­trated with the way White police officers treat
African American men. It is alleged that blacks are treated unfairly and there
has been a long history of injustices meted out against African American males.
In the past few years, many African-American males have lost their lives in the
hands of White police officers. And with Freddie Gray, it is a death too many
and some people seized the opportu­nity to act out. However, violence do e s not
solve problems. It is rather inconc eivable for people to bur n down the com
munity where they live. It is rather harmful for one or a group to destroy his
com munity. It is easier to destroy th a n to build ; the e c onomic
consequences of de­str uction is enormous because of its multiplier effects. T
he act of o ne destroying his commun it y is an in­justice to self, too.

Li ke Ferguson last year, scho ols were closed for both safety and precautionary
measures. Similarly, busine sse s were closed and boarded up to prevent looti
ng. T he violence led to the cancellation of Oriole's home game. The scheduled
game on Wednesday will not be open to the public. The level of violence and n
ational anger emitting from deep-rooted ra cial tensions from the h is tor y of
mistreatments of blacks prompted the i mplementa­tion on Tues day night f rom
10:00 p.m. u nt il 5:00 a.m. Based on the information on t he city's website, "
M ayor St e ph a nie Rawlings -Blake has instituted a city-wide cu r­few that
will go into ef fect today, April 28, starting at 10:00 pm. The curfew will be
in place for seve n days, at which p oi nt the mayor wil l deter mine if
additional days are needed." "The night-time cu r few appl ies for all citize ns
(with excep­tions of emerge ncy personnel and those commuting to and from work
for essent ial funct ions, including students traveli ng to/from classes)."

Thus, leaders i n the c ommunit y, as well as across the nation, de­nounce
violence as a means to ex­press frustration. Peaceful demon­stration has been a
preferred means of voicing anger against police bru­tality. On Tuesday, April
28, 2015, President Obama said, "This is not new," acknowledging the history of
injustices black people are suf­fering in the hands of police. Re­jecting
violence, President Obama said, "There's no excuse for the kind of violence we
saw yesterday," he said. "It is counterproductive. When individuals get crowbars
and start prying open doors to loot, they're not protesting. They're not making
a statement. They're steal­ing. When they burn down a build­ing they're
committing arson, and they're destroying and undermin­ing businesses and
opportunities in their own communities that rob jobs and opportunities from
people in that area."

In a news conference reacting to the riot on Monday night, Stepha­nie
Rawlings-Blake, Mayor of Bal­timore expressed her ire against the violence in
her city, but touted the tenacity of the residents to rebuild the city. She
said, "Last night was a very rough period for our city. I think we saw a lot
more of what Baltimore is about we saw people coming together to reclaim our
city, to clean our city and to help heal our city. I think this can be our
de­fining moment and not the darkest days that we saw yesterday."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1228


                   Copyright 2015 The Sun Publishing Limited
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             579 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Asharq Alawsat (English)

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

Al-Assad between demonstrations and isolation

LENGTH: 1571 words


By Adel Al Toraifi


When the events [Muslim Brotherhood uprising against the Syrian regime] broke
out in Hama in February 1982, the revolutionary leadership in Iran found itself
facing a difficult test, being forced to choose between supporting the ruling
(secular) Baath Party, or championing the armed Muslim Brotherhood
revolutionaries, whose beliefs were closer to the ideology of the radical
mullahs. The al-Assad's regime and the Muslim Brotherhood were amongst the first
to recognize the Iranian revolution, and Syria provided logistical support to
Iran in its wars in Iraq and Lebanon. Damascus had also put itself forward as an
ambassador for Iranian interests, particularly towards the Soviet Union and the
Arab States. As for the Muslim Brotherhood, they considered the Islamic
Revolution in Iran to be a sign of the region's thirst for an Islamic model of
rule, and a number of Muslim Brotherhood advocates tried to use the Iranian
Revolution as a tool for support and pressure in their confrontation of the Arab
regimes. However, the phase of reconciliation and harmony between the Muslim
Brotherhood and the Iranian regime ended when on the eve of the events in Hama,
former Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati announced that Iran was
standing alongside President Hafez al-Assad, describing Syria's Muslim
Brotherhood as "agents of America and Zionism". Since then, Tehran has stood by
President al-Assad during even more difficult circumstances, and even when
competition was mounting between followers of the two sides in Lebanon, Tehran
remained sensitive to its special relationship with Syria.


Today, Syria is facing a major challenge to its legitimacy, in the form of
massive popular demonstrations in a number of cities. The question that is
preoccupying observers today relates to the future of the Iranian-Syrian axis,
which has existed since 1979, and whether this will be able to continue in the
event of regime change.

What is happening in Syria represents a genuine challenge to the legitimacy of
President Bashar al-Assad, and the Syrian Baath Party, and the survival of the
regime will depend on its ability to contain the popular discontent. However,
what is certain is that if violent demonstrations continue, and spread to the
capital Damascus, this will only increase the likelihood of the president's
departure and regime change. At the present time, Syrian authorities are trying
to use a mixture of security force on the ground, whilst offering unprecedented
concessions, in order to alleviate the spread of civil disobedience. It has been
stressed on more than one occasion that the demonstrations have a "sectarian"
nature, and this is true. The Syrian Baath party previously included, and still
does, a large proportion of the Sunni community; however its leadership ranks
include many who belong to different sects. It must also be noted that the
sectarian pluralism within the Baath party has tended - particularly over the
past two decades - towards the Alawite sect, which is the same thing that
happened in the Iraqi Baath Party, which became extremely Sunni during the
mid-1980s. There were objective reasons for this change, perhaps the most
important was the repeated coup attempts by Sunni officers, either being
instigated by the Iraqi Baath party in the 1970s, or as a result of a sectarian
rift between the Sunnis and the Alawites, which led to the armed Hama uprising
[by the Muslim Brotherhood against the Syrian government].

The Syrian regime, which has been in power for over four decades, was able to
overcome a number of challenges, such as the 1973 [Yom Kippur] war, and even
internal divisions between key figures in the regime, as occurred in 1984, 1991,
and 1999. However, the regime's legitimacy internally has always been
questionable, and the regime has resorted to severe measures in the management
of its internal affairs. The government disrupted any attempts regarding the
development of political parties, and quelled the emergence of views outside the
umbrella of the authority. The main weapon of the regime was, and remains, the
use of the "resistance" card to oppose peace agreements, as well as the
exploitation of Palestinian and Lebanese groups to influence Arab public
opinion. It could be argued that Syria was able to draw a realistic picture of
"Arab nationalism", and impose great respect for President Hafez al-Assad as a
strong and influential political figure in the region. Thus, some experts argue
that Syria could not sacrifice its external positions, and sign peace
agreements, without compromising its regional legitimacy.

Syria enjoyed participation in a tripartite axis (Saudi Arabia - Egypt - Syria)
since the mid 1990s, and this strengthened Syria's position, and opened it up
economically to Gulf investments. However, when Bashar al-Assad came to power
Syria began to fluctuate in its positions, and the 2003 Iraq War played a
significant role in directing Syria towards extremism, and intransigence in its
regional positions. The Syrian regime felt that it was the target of US
pressure, and consequently began an intelligence war to destabilize Iraq, and
Prime Minister [Rafik] Hariri was assassinated during the Syrian occupation of
Lebanon. With the rise of the conservatives and the Revolutionary Guards in
Iran, al-Assad became a strategic pawn in the Iranian plan, and Syria
transformed over time from Iran's equal partner to nothing more than a junior
partner, equivalent in value to an armed group such as Hezbollah. Some Arab
countries tried to isolate Syria in order to pressure it to reduce its ties to
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's project. Between 2007 and 2010, many initiatives were
offered to Syria to urge it to change its extremist and uncompromising
positions, but to no avail. President al-Assad was quick to accept the
initiatives, but without offering anything in return and only after agreement
with Iran, prompting many to believe that his regime did nothing but provide its
visitors with lengthy lectures, and that the real solution was to be found in
Tehran, rather than Damascus.

At the beginning of the recent unrest, President Bashar al-Assad was quick to
conduct an interview with the Wall Street Journal, in which he talked about
styles of governance - in a manner of offering advice - in which he criticized
the Tunisian and Egyptian presidents. He described them as not being responsive
to the will of the people who sought "resistance", saying that Syria is immune
to what happened because the regime did not abandon resistance in confronting
Israel, as other [Arab] states did. However, just six weeks later al-Assad has
found himself facing the same fate, which means that the "resistance" is not
immune to the demands of change. Currently, the Syrian regime is seeking support
from some Arab states, and these are the same states which al-Assad previously
described as "half-men" [for criticizing Hezbollah]. At the same time, the
Americans, the Europeans and some Gulf states have quickly moved to confront
Gaddafi in Libya, yet they do not exercise the same enthusiasm in criticizing
the abuses of the Syrian regime when dealing with protestors and riots. Here,
[US Secretary of State] Hilary Clinton has said that the United States does not
intend to carry out any sort of military intervention, and that "Syria is not
Libya", even going as far as to describe al-Assad as a "reformer."

There can be no doubt that there are flaws, and double standards, with regards
to how crises affecting the region are being dealt with, for during the past
decade even Gaddafi's regime was described as moving towards reform, but we have
clearly seen the result of the regime's insistence on remaining in power, and
the same applies to the Syrian regime in Hama in 1982. It seems that for the
first time the United States and Iran - and possibly even Israel - all agree on
the necessity of the Syrian regime's survival, for the collapse of the regime
could harm everybody's interests, for as the saying goes, "better the devil you
know."

In his book "Assad: The Struggle for the Middle East" (1998), Patrick Seale
states that President Hafez al-Assad was suffering from depression in the late
1980s. Seale claims that al-Assad hardly appeared outside of his well-guarded
office, and only dealt with his generals and ministers over the phone. He would
sometimes call his foreign ambassadors in the middle of the night, talking to
them about the history of Syria until the early hours of the morning, and asking
his guards to prepare cups of tea. At this time, an armed Iranian group
kidnapped a Syrian intelligence officer in Tehran. Al-Assad was disturbed by the
incident, particularly the Iranian group's affiliation to Lebanon's Hezbollah.
Tehran threatened to sever relations [with Hezbollah] unless the officer was
returned within 48 hours, and this is indeed what happened. President Hafez
al-Assad benefited from this lesson, and made moves to open up to some Arab
countries and reduce Syria's dependence on Iran. He supported the Taif
Agreement, despite Iranian reservations and Hezbollah's non-participation.
Damascus moved closer to the Clinton administration, to the point that in 1998
the Iranians feared that al-Assad was on the verge of sacrificing Syria's
relations with Tehran.

Today, Syrian-Iranian relations are experiencing a major test, but it is certain
that these will witness major transformations.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 425


                 Copyright 2011 Saudi Research & Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


                             580 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               February 1, 2005 Tuesday 0 South Pinellas Edition

As Iraq ballots roll in, leader stresses unity

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1000 words


On the day after Iraq's historic elections, Prime Minister Ayad Allawi urged
Iraqis on Monday to unite behind democracy as world leaders heaped praise on the
voters for their strong turnout.

In the number of attacks, Sunday was Iraq's most violent day since the fall of
Baghdad in 2003, but it was far from the bloodiest. Officials credited the joint
U.S.-Iraqi security operation, which put a quarter-million forces on the
streets.

Partial results from the election could be released as early as today, though
final results from the hand counting of ballots could take up to 10 days,
election officials said. U.S. soldiers stood guard and election workers cheered
as trucks loaded with the first batch of ballots from the provinces rolled into
Baghdad's heavily fortified Green Zone for the next phase of the count.

In his first public statement since the elections, Allawi called on Iraqis to
join to build a society shattered by decades of war, Saddam Hussein's tyranny,
economic sanctions, military occupation and insurgency.

"The terrorists now know that they cannot win," Allawi said. "We are entering a
new era of our history and all Iraqis - whether they voted or not - should stand
side by side to build their future."

Local polling stations worked through the night to count ballots - by oil lamp
at one Najaf site after power went off. By Monday afternoon, the count at all
5,200 stations nationwide was completed, and local centers were forwarding tally
sheets and ballots to Baghdad, where vote totals will be compiled in computers
and then announced, election officials said.

The reaction was mixed in much of the Arab world. The pictures of Iraqis voting,
including tens of thousands of expatriates casting ballots in countries where
elections are not allowed, appeared to puzzle many Arab governments that had
been predicting through state-run media an even bloodier election day.

The interim Iraqi government announced that one Arab head of state, Sheik Zayed
bin Sultan Nahayan of the United Arab Emirates, called Prime Minister Ayad
Allawi to express congratulations. But many Arab leaders remained mute or urged
Iraq's new elected leadership to ensure that power will be shared fairly among
religious and ethnic groups.

One exception was Jordan's King Abdullah II, who said the election "will set a
good tone for the Middle East."

Other world leaders, including French President Jacques Chirac and other leading
opponents of the war in Iraq, praised Iraqi voters for their strong turnout,
saying terrorists were the losers.

Chirac called President Bush to say he was satisfied and to reiterate a French
offer to train Iraqi security forces and civil servants.

"These elections mark an important step in the political reconstruction of Iraq.
The strategy of terrorist groups has partly failed," Chirac told Bush, according
to the French leader's spokesman.

Praise from world capitals was tempered by concerns over the low turnout among
Iraq's once-powerful Sunni Muslim minority and appeals to Iraqi authorities not
to exclude any peaceful ethnic, religious or political groups as they draft a
constitution.

Shiite Muslim Arabs, who make up 60 percent of Iraq's 26-million people, were
expected to dominate the new government.

Russian President Vladimir Putin, backtracking from a harsh warning in December
that elections could not be fair under U.S.-led occupation, said the vote was
"undoubtedly a step toward democratization."

German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer said, "We must work together in our
common interest, wherever we stood on the question of whether it was right to go
to war." His country, like France and Russia, opposed the U.S.-led invasion but
supports efforts to rebuild Iraq.

In Brussels, EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana told the Associated Press
that Iraq's move toward democracy would generate more aid for the country. The
25-nation bloc wants to help draft Iraq's new constitution and train its
judiciary and security forces, he said.

Those security forces played a large role on election day, which was the most
violent day in Iraq since the fall of Baghdad almost two years ago, as
insurgents made good on their repeated threats to attack Iraq's polling stations
with car bombs, suicide vests, mortars, rockets, small arms fire and grenades in
109 separate attacks, U.S. officials said.

Across the country, insurgents launched 260 attacks against targets of all
kinds, including U.S. military and Iraqi security forces, officials said. Yet
the casualty count - at least 44 dead, about 100 wounded - did not rank among
the highest one-day totals.

The insurgents' effort to sow fear was overshadowed by the determination of
multitudes of ordinary Iraqis to vote regardless of the danger, and to the
extraordinary effectiveness of the joint Iraqi-U.S. security operation that let
them do so.

Baghdad was locked down tight on election day. Car bombers had no chance on
streets emptied of every vehicle except the blue-and-white trucks of the Iraqi
police and the U.S. patrols that were stationed at every major intersection.

Some 100,000 newly trained Iraqi soldiers and police were on duty over the
weekend, supplementing U.S. forces of 150,000.

Iraq's electoral commission said it believed that turnout among the estimated
14-million eligible Iraqi voters appeared higher than the 57 percent, or roughly
8-million, predicted before Sunday's poll. Official turnout figures were not yet
available.

Information from the Associated Press and Washington Post was used in this
report.

THE  LATEST

NEW ATTACK: Insurgents killed three U.S. Marines in a roadside bombing south of
Baghdad on Monday.

PRISON RIOT: U.S. troops opened fire on detainees rioting Monday at the Camp
Bucca prison facility in southern Iraq, killing four people.

WHAT'S NEXT: The transitional National Assembly will name a new prime minister
and Cabinet and draw up a permanent constitution to be put to a referendum.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company


                             581 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     November 15, 2016 Tuesday 10:21 AM GMT

World leaders must heed fears of voters, warns Barack Obama

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 744 words


President Barack Obama has said world leaders need to pay attention to people's
fears of economic dislocation and inequality in the midst of globalisation.

Drawing a broad lesson from the election of Donald Trump, he said: "The more
aggressively and effectively we deal with those issues, the less those fears may
channel themselves into counter-productive approaches that can pit people
against each other."

As he opened the last foreign tour of his presidency, he joined Greek prime
minister Alexis Tsipras for a joint press c onference in Athens, and said Mr
Trump's election and the British vote to leave the European Union reflected the
need to deal with "people's fears that their children won't do as well as they
have".

"Sometimes people just feel as if we want to try something and see if we can
shake things up," Mr Obama said.

The president seemed sceptical that "the new prescriptions being offered" would
satisfy the frustrations and anger evident in the US election, and also claimed
his agenda over the past eight years had dealt with US economic issues head on
and "the country's indisputably better off".

He added pointedly that some of the rhetoric in the elections was "pretty
troubling and not necessarily connected to the facts".

Mr Tsipras said he had refrained from rushing to criticising Mr Trump as some
other European leaders had done, saying the Republican's "aggressive manner"
might be different as president. He predicted that "in the near future not much
is going to change in the relations between the EU, Greece and the United States
of America".

He added that it was one thing to criticise Mr Trump during the campaign and
another thing now he will be a "major player" in the world.

Mr Obama earlier offered the Greeks reassuring words about the US commitment to
Nato, saying Democratic and Republican administrations alike recognise the
importance of the alliance to the transatlantic relationship.

He told Greek President Prokopis Pavlopoulos that a strong Nato is of "utmost
importance" and would provide "significant continuity even as we see a
transition in government in the United States".

Mr Pavlopoulos thanked Mr Obama for US support of the Greek people in a time of
social and economic crisis, and said he was confident Mr Trump "will continue on
the same path".

Mr Obama's reassurances reflect an attempt to ease the deep concerns about Mr
Trump and the future of America's treaty alliances. Yet they may be greeted with
scepticism: For months throughout the campaign, Obama repeatedly assured world
leaders in public and private that Mr Trump would not be elected, only to see
him emerge victorious from last week's election.

In his meeting with Mr Tsipras, he offered a welcome message of support for the
Greeks as they struggle with economic woes and a huge influx of refugees. He
pledged to keep pressing his view that "austerity alone cannot deliver
prosperity and that it is going to be important both with respect to debt relief
and other accommodative strategies to help the Greek people in this period of
adjustment".

Meanwhile, minor clashes broke out in Athens as left-wing demonstrators
protesting against the visit by Mr Obama tried to break a police cordon and were
repelled with tear gas.

No injuries or arrests were reported. About 3,000 anarchists, left-wing group
supporters and students marched through the city centre in a demonstration
originally planned to reach the US Embassy in another part of town.

A second planned protest by Communist party supporters is due to start later.

All demonstrations have been banned in a large area of central Athens during the
two-day visit. Riot police blocked the marchers from the part of the city where
Mr Obama will be, parking buses across roads and manning cordons.

Greek authorities have deployed more than 5,000 police for the visit. The riot
squad is on high alert for violence, and an armed anarchist group has called for
"attacks and clashes" to disrupt the visit.

There is a strong anti-American tradition among Greek left-wingers who still
resent US support for Greece's 1967-74 military dictatorship.

Mr Obama's visit comes just two days before the country's main annual
anti-American demonstrations, which commemorate the bloody suppression by
military authorities in 1973 of a pro-democracy student uprising.

The last visit to Greece by a US president was by Bill Clinton in 1999. It was
marred by extensive street fighting between anarchists and riot police.

AP

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2016 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             582 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                January 15, 2006

Business & Media: Business: Focus: Why the lights are dimmed in Baghdad:
Insurgency could wipe out all our work, warns UK contractor Amec. Oliver Morgan
reports

BYLINE: Oliver Morgan

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 793 words


AMEC, THE British infrastructure project manager, is warning that much of the
reconstruction work it has done in Iraq in the past 18 months could be wiped out
if funding for programmes is scaled back.

The prediction comes a week after reports indicated that the White House would
not seek additional funds for rebuilding the country once the $18.4bn agreed by
Congress in autumn 2003 has been spent.

In mid-term election year, the Bush administration is working on its 2007 budget
and is seeking to cut spending against the background of a growing deficit and
the costs of hurricane relief and the Iraq conflict. Reconstruction in the
country appears to be a casualty.

Bush has boasted of leaving Iraqi infrastructure in a better state than it was
under Saddam. In March 2004 he talked of rebuilding the country so that 'a free
Iraq can quickly gain economic independence'. He pointed to its oil wealth,
saying it was producing 2 million barrels a day and to pledges of international
aid.

But while a White House spokesman tellingly talked of US funding in the past
tense - the officer overseeing reconstruction for the US Army Corps of Engineers
said the US had never intended to rebuild Iraq completely. The $18bn was a
springboard, he said.

Now, Amec, the biggest non-US operator in Iraq, warns that there is great
uncertainty for the future.

Amec, through a joint venture with US engineer Fluor, won several major
contracts in Iraq from the Coalition Provisional Authority, the interim body
that subsequently handed over to the Iraqi government. In March 2004 the joint
venture won a $500m deal to rebuild electricity infrastructure and secured a
$1.1bn contract to restore its water system. Amec's share of these deals was
$240m and $540m respectively. It also has a smaller contract for environmental
work.

Amec says the work under the main three contracts is largely completed. It
expects to finish what it was asked to do by the end of March.

However, Amec says the work it has done may not last long. A spokesman said:
'Recently, as much as 25 per cent of work completed has been repairing
infrastructure damaged by insurgents. If funding levels are not maintained,
insurgent activity could quickly [undo] much of our work over the past 18
months.'

He added: 'Regarding future work, we would say that with uncertainty in the
region and the withdrawal of US funding, it is difficult to predict levels of
activity.'

The insurgency has bedevilled the reconstruction effort and added massively to
costs. Funds originally earmarked for rebuilding have been diverted to pay for
exigencies such as training a security force.

Amec, which has several hundred project managers in the country, managing up to
10,000 contractors, has regularly had to stop projects because of insurgent
activity. For smaller operators, the environment has often proved too much.

Graham Hand of the British Consultants and Contractors Bureau says that of about
30 British contractors in Iraq two years ago, there are now only half a dozen
there. 'When companies first went out, they were told by the government that it
was difficult, but would get better. It has got worse.'

Companies have to pay for the protection teams provided by outfits such as
Control Risks, which employ ex-servicemen in armoured 4x4 vehicles to escort
civilian personnel around the country at a typical cost of $5,000 to $8,000 a
day.

Andy Bearpark, former head of operations at the Coalition Provisional Authority
and now a UK-based consultant, says: 'The experience of reconstruction has been
expensive, difficult and slow. People have not seen the improvements they
thought they were going to see. The result is you get an Iraqi population that
is disaffected.'

Despite Amec's claim that it has nearly finished what it was asked to do, Iraq's
infrastructure appears to be in a worse condition that it was before the war.
For example, the electricity supply is still around 4,000 megawatts, about the
pre-war level. On average, there is 12 hours of supply a day. Meanwhile, oil
production is 1.1 million barrels a day, below pre-war levels.

Lack of electricity causes civil unrest - there have been riots. And, as the US
made clear, oil production is vital if Iraq is to stand by itself.

Bearpark says America has invested more than any other country, but it has not
seen the results. 'It is a tough position,' he said.

There is some light, however. Neil Quillian, an Iraq analyst with Control Risks,
says: 'Some contractors are saying they are optimistic following December's
elections.' He says the fact that disaffected Sunni muslims participated in the
vote suggests a more peaceful future.

Does he believe this? He is unsure. Does Bearpark? No. And Amec? The company
will only repeat that the future remains uncertain.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             583 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             July 15, 2001, Sunday

Berlusconi brings in body bags for G8 Genoa is braced for trouble as
anti-capitalist groups promise to disrupt economic summit

BYLINE: BY JULIAN COMAN AND ROBERT FOX

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 664 words

SILVIO BERLUSCONI, the Italian Prime Minister, has ordered security forces to
prepare for unprecedented levels of violence at this week's G8 summit in Genoa,
authorising the purchase of 200 body bags and the setting up of a temporary
morgue in a city hospital.

In the tensest build-up to an international summit for decades, the Italian
government fears a violent backlash to events at last month's European Union
summit in Gothenburg, where one protester was shot by police during riots. The
United States has already laid plans to remove President Bush from his hotel to
the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise in the Gulf of Genoa should serious rioting
begin.

For the past month, anti-capitalist protest groups have said that disturbances
at Genoa will dwarf those seen previously at Seattle, Prague and Gothenburg.
More than 100,000 protesters are expected to converge on the city, many intent
on breaking through to the summit area.

Mr Berlusconi has placed his authority on the line to ensure a peaceful summit,
supervising the most elaborate security measures ever seen for a G8 meeting.

A missile defence system has been installed at Genoa airport to deter airborne
terrorist attack. The land-based rockets have a range of nine miles and were
previously deployed along the Adriatic coast during the Nato conflict with
Yugoslavia. Other than Mr Bush, most G8 leaders will be accommodated on the
liner European Vision, moored in Genoa harbour, which will be guarded by
military frogmen and carabinieri.

The Brigata Folgore, the Italian equivalent of the SAS, has been placed on
stand-by. "We will do anything necessary to allow this summit to take place
without disturbance," said a spokesman for the Italian Interior Ministry. There
are fears however, that some protesters may already have penetrated the Red Zone
where the summit will take place. "If that is the case, we'll just have to get
them out when the time comes," said a Genoa police official. The summit begins
on Friday, but from Wednesday the city will effectively be under siege. Italian
State Railways announced last Friday that both of Genoa's main stations would
close two days in advance, in an attempt to keep protesters away from the
harbour area where the summit is being held. The heavy precautions have angered
protest groups. Vittorio Agnoletto, the spokesman for the Genoa Social Forum,
which is co-ordinating more than 1,000 anti-summit groups and associations,
said: "If closing the train stations is supposed to be a challenge to us, then
we can tell them right now that we are going to get there whatever happens."
Across the internet, organisations have threatened violence. The German
anarchist group, Autonomen, has promised disruption using "whatever means
possible".

Luca Casarini, the leader of the Italian anarchist group, the White Overalls,
said the group had studied police tactics for the past month. "We know their
strategy and how to defeat it," he said. "We will be using some highly
unconventional methods and when we storm the city's off-limit zone, we will be
ready to defend ourselves. This is not going to be a small conflict. This is a
revolution." As pre-summit tension rises, Italian ministers have fiercely
criticised the decision, taken by the previous premier, Giuliano Amato, to hold
the summit in Genoa. "The choice of Genoa for an occasion such as this was an
act of complete irresponsibility," said Giuliano Urbani, the minister for
culture.

" The city doesn't have spaces that are easy to control and things could get
very dangerous. People will be at risk, and so will the cultural monuments."

One anti-summit protest may already have started. Antonio Bruno, a local
Communist MP, has called for a "sex strike against the Imperial domination of
the G8". Sympathisers are being urged to refuse sexual activity with anyone
"collaborating" with the meeting. "Drivers, interpreters, policemen . . . the
strike could hit all kinds of professions," said Mr Bruno.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited


                             584 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            October 29, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The Dead rise again: Same great opening but director's cut has more gore, extras

BYLINE: Carey Gillette, The Province

SECTION: E ENTERTAINMENT TODAZ; Home Movies; Pg. B14

LENGTH: 509  words


It takes the two slacker stars of the hilarious zombie comedy Shaun of the Dead
a good while to figure out their town is being over-run by the living dead. Not
so in the movie it's named after, Dawn of the Dead, out just in time for
Halloween.

No, this movie gets right to the point with a heart-pounding opening 10 minutes
that sets up the story and main character in leap-out-of-your-seat fashion.

Without going into great detail and ruining it for Dead first-timers, the movie
stars Sarah Polley as a nurse who is forced to flee when flesh-hungry zombies
take over her neighbourhood. She comes across a few other survivors and they all
flock to -- where else? -- the mall to await a rescue team.

It isn't long before they're attacked by zombies, joined by more living and come
to the realization that help isn't on its way.

Dawn of the Dead doesn't maintain the pace of its opening sequence but it has
its share of frightening moments. The comedic touches are well done, too.

Just keep in mind that this is a horror movie, which means zombies get croquet
mallets through the head, limbs are severed with chainsaws and, well, you get
the idea.

This is even more true for the "Unrated Director's Cut" DVD. In an intro to the
disc, filmmaker Zack Snyder says the new version has "more gore and more
character." He got the gore part right.

Both the theatrical and extended DVDs have great extras, including two made
exclusively for the discs. "Special Bulletin: Zombie Invasion" is a corny but
fun newscast covering the disaster, from the early reports of riots to the U.S.
president's final message to Americans. There's also "The Lost Tape," a
15-minute home movie made by Andy, who is stranded on the roof of his gunshop.
Both DVDs also have a making-of, a commentary and deleted scenes.

Adding to the "gore" factor on the director's cut are three extra featurettes:
"Raising the Dead," detailing how extras were transformed into zombies, "Attack
of the Living Dead," which goes over some of the ways those zombies are killed,
and "Splitting Heads," which reveals how the crew made those kills look so, uh,
gross.

Rating: Movie: 3, extras: 3

MENU

Picture: Widescreen

Sound: Dolby Digital 5.1

- - -

ALSO NEW ON DVD THIS WEEK

Mulan: Special Edition

All-new transfer of the Disney animated film, plus deleted scenes and song,
games and making-of featurettes.

Dora's Ultimate Adventure Collection

Includes three Explorer DVDs: Map Adventures, City of Lost Toys and Rhymes and
Riddles.

Star Trek: The Next Generation Collection

Available for the first time as a package, the Next Generation collection
includes box sets for each of the seven seasons, presented in full frame with
Dolby Digital 5.1, and extras. Also available is the complete set of Deep Space
Nine, which also ran seven seasons.

That '70s Show: The Complete First Season

Flash back to the season that first brought us Forman, Kelso, Donna and Co.

The O.C.: The Complete First Season

Seven-disc set includes all 27 episodes from the first season, plus featurettes
and a preview of season two.

cgillette@png.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Dawn of the Dead);
Photo: (Mulan: Special Edition);
Photo: (Dora's Ultimate Adventure Collection);
Photo: (Star Trek: The Next Generation Collection);
Photo: (That '70s Show: The Complete First Season);
Photo: (The O.C.: The Complete First Season)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column; Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             585 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                             June 14, 2014 Saturday

Economic nationalism

BYLINE: Dr Ahmad Rashid Malik

SECTION: Vol. XXVIII No. 107

LENGTH: 838  words


What's happening in Vietnam? The country appeared to be the most lucrative
market for investors since the 1990s.

Now, one may ask, is it Vietnam's economic nationalism or economic
discrimination that is revealing itself against China? East Asia has a history
of demonstrations against other nationalities.

Demonstrations started against Japan in South East Asia in the 1950s. Lately,
the Japanese were targeted in China. Now, 20,000 demonstrations in Vietnam
targeted China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and ethnic Chinese. Behind the scenes there
were 'government blessings.' Is it an American pivot to Asia or the reaction
against the rise of China and its proposed new maritime routes?

Protestors burned and looted factories. More than 20 people died and 128 were
injured as anti-Chinese riots in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City escalated against
Chinese factories and companies on 13 May. Chinese took shelter in hotels and
halted operations in their factories. Over 3000 escaped to Cambodia.

Now, it seems China might repatriate its nationals from Vietnam. Beijing
strongly protested against the riots. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi stated
that 'Vietnam bears inescapable responsibility' for the rioters' attacks on
Chinese firms and nationals. He demanded an investigation into the violence and
compensation for the losses of Chinese firms and citizens.

Many factories were damaged in a southern province of Binh Duong notably a large
Taiwanese steel mill.

There are around 1,000 Taiwanese companies in Binh Duong and over 200 have been
attacked, with 11 factories burned. Tension rose amidst anger over a Chinese oil
rig placed in disputed waters near the Paracel Islands claimed by both Vietnam
and China. Beijing deployed an oil rig worth US$ 1 billion in waters 130 km off
the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) as claimed by Vietnam. China believes that the
drilling was within the range of China's sovereignty, rights, and jurisdiction
under the United Nations Convention on the Law of Sea (UNCLOS) of 1982. Vietnam
also expressed its intention to take a legal course of action against China. The
Chinese Foreign Ministry gave references to the UNCLOS too.

They opined that the Xisha Islands are a part of China's inherent territory but
Vietnamese authorizes claim that Xisha and Nansha Islands belong to Vietnam.
China might take some security measures for the drilling and its workers. The
numbers of Vietnamese and Chinese vessels have increased around the disputed
waters and might escalate in further political and military tension between the
two nations.

Both countries fought several wars and remained unable to resolve disputes. They
fought a border war in 1979. Ties were normalized in 1991. On the Spratly
Islands, China has a maritime dispute with Taiwan, the Philippines, Malaysia,
and Brunei besides Vietnam. A separate island disputes exists between China and
Japan. Because of the forces of the free market and globalization, the situation
is worsening.

China invested enormously in South East Asia. Vietnam became a favorite
destination of Chinese investment. Taiwan is one also of the largest sources of
foreign direct investment in Vietnam, having poured in US$28 billion over the
past two decades. The Vietnam episode dented upon the soft image of China in
South East Asia. Chinese investors also face public anger in the United States
and Australia.

China needs regional balance in its investment outflow policy. More investment
could be carried out in a country that has extraordinarily good diplomatic
relations with China. Myanmar and Pakistan are cases in point.

The rise of China also faces a dilemma. Japan and many East Asian countries
oppose a Chinese presence. Disputes are historical and they put a limit on
China's emerging role.

Trade and investment also have limitations for building trust. Diplomacy faces
failure in spite of regional economic integration under various fora. ASEAN
maintains a neutral stand over the issue.

Japan, Vietnam, and the Philippines are difficult spots for Chinese diplomacy in
East Asia. China says that the United States and Japan have been instigating
Vietnam for provocative action. There should be some regional mechanism to
diffuse tension and resolve the territorial disputes around the South China Sea.
In fact, the maritime dispute could easily be resolved under the UNCLOS.

Vietnam tried to muster international support. The country opted to take up the
matter to the International Court of Justice. Japan, Australia, and the United
States criticized China's action in the South China Sea. On the other hand,
riots have also damaged Vietnam's soft image of a safe destination of investment
and tourism.

More than China, Vietnam would face difficulties. Vietnam's trade with China
rose to US $50.2 billion last year and amounts to 15 percent of Vietnam's global
trade. Riots have threatened foreign investment in Vietnam. Rising tension would
severely damage the prospects of trade between the two nations. Vietnam should
avoid its economic nationalism to fix its woes with China.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             586 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                            January 1, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Switch on

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 402 words


Queen Victoria''s Children BBC2, 9pm QUEEN Victoria and Prince Albert shared a
passionate marriage. But behind closed doors their domestic life was a
battlefield. Spanning 60 years, this three part family saga explores the reign
of Victoria through her relationships with her husband and nine children.

It's a story of manipulation, conflict, intimidation, emotional blackmail and
fevered attempts by her brood to escape the clutches of their domineering and
needy mother.

The series uses a wealth of written material including letters, diaries,
memoirs, and journals, to bring the characters to life, the first episode
focusing on Victoria's tempestuous relationship with Prince Albert and their
attempts to engineer the upbringing of their children and save the monarchy by
projecting a modern image of the royal family.

Switch on Galapagos With David Attenborough Sky1, 7pm MORE than 150 years after
Charles Darwin formulated his groundbreaking theory of evolution on this wild
and remote archipelago, David Attenborough explores the volcanic islands and
biological wonderland of the Galapagos Islands.

Attenborough explores how life has continued to evolve in biological isolation,
examining how the remote and ever changing volcanic landscape has given birth to
species and subspecies that exist nowhere else in the world.

He also reveals how these creatures have developed unusual tricks for
communication and survival, including finches that use sticks and spines as
tools for foraging and seemingly normal dandelion seeds that grow into plants
the size of trees.

Switch on River Monsters ITV1, 6pm IN SOUTHERN Africa, there are rumours of a
deadly fish. It lurks unseen in the eerie waters of the Okavango.

A killer with shark-like teeth, there are stories of it hunting in packs and
feeding in frenzies on fish or even bodies.

It sounds like the work of giant piranhas but there's nothing like that in these
parts. Or is there? Extreme angler Jeremy Wade is on a mission to see if he can
track down and identify this terrifying river monster.

Switch on Charlie Brooker's 2012 Wipe BBC2, 10pm THE writer and broadcaster
takes a satirical look back at the events of the past 12 months, including the
Olympic Games, the Queen''s Diamond Jubilee, the jailing of members of Russian
punk group Pussy Riot and the U.S. presidential election. Doug Stanhope, Sharon
Horgan, and Peter Serafinowicz are among those taking part.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GAMES: Writer and presenter Charlie Brooker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2013 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             587 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

Answer charges on 1984 riots: US court to Indian Congress

LENGTH: 234  words

DATELINE: New York


New York, March 24 -- India's Congress party has been asked to respond by April
1 to "summons" issued by a US court to answer charges of "conspiring, aiding,
abetting and organizing" attacks on Sikhs in November 1984. The US District
Court for the Southern District of New York issued the summons March 1 in
response to a class action law suit filed by "Sikhs For Justice" (SFJ), a US
based human rights group, along with several Sikh witnesses and survivors of the
1984 attacks. "If the Congress party did not respond to the summons of the US
Federal Court by April 1, 2011, SFJ will ask the court to enter a default
against Congress (I)," SFJ legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun said on
Tuesday.

The default judgment against Congress (I) will give the victims of November 1984
an opportunity to seek compensatory and punitive damages from Congress (I) for
the party's role in "genocidal attack" on Sikhs during November 1984, he said.
In US, criminal prosecution of Congress (I) leadership will be sought under the
"Human Rights Enforcement Act of 2009" which specifically gives jurisdiction to
the US Courts to prosecute foreign nationals who are suspected of committing
crimes against humanity, he said Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             588 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

OPINION: US-style racial protests erupt in Israel

BYLINE: Anthony L. Hall, Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 1624 words


May 08--White policemen beating (or even killing) minorities has become
commonplace in the United States. But they would be loath to beat (and risk
killing) a uniformed black soldier here.

White policemen beating (or even killing) minorities has become commonplace in
Israel too. But they appear to have no compunctions about beating (and risk
killing) even a uniformed black soldier there.

A first protest in Jerusalem on Thursday was triggered by the emergence of a
video showing two policemen beating a uniformed Israeli soldier of Ethiopian
origin named Damas Pakada.

Ethiopian Israelis claim their community has long suffered from police brutality
and widespread discrimination.

(Agence France-Presse, May 4, 2015)

In fact, US-style racial protests have been erupting in Israel for days now --
complete with rolling clashes between the police and destitute, disaffected,
disenfranchised and disillusioned Israeli citizens of African descent.

But I hasten to clarify that these protests are separate and apart from the
"intifadas" (and interregnum uprisings), which aggrieved Palestinians have been
waging, for decades, in Israel and the Occupied Territories.

No less a person than former US President Jimmy Carter likened this more
notorious Palestinian struggle to that which blacks waged in South Africa during
Apartheid. I commented on racial protests in this Palestinian context in
"Instead of Peace, Israel Settling for Apartheid," The iPINIONS Journal, May 1,
2014.

That said, the simmering grievances among blacks in Israel, which finally boiled
over last week, are all too familiar. I cannot overstate this point. Hell,
reports about Ethiopian (black) Jews representing just three percent of Israeli
children, but twenty percent of those incarcerated in juvenile prisons, seem
almost plagiarized from perennial reports about black children incarcerated in
juvenile prisons across the United States.

Of course, the reason these protests in Israel are so familiar is that, for
decades, similar grievances have been simmering (and boiling over from time to
time) among blacks in the United States -- as embering protests in Ferguson and
Baltimore throw into stark relief. And, in recent years, similar grievances have
been simmering (and boiling over from time to time) among blacks in Europe -- as
the following excerpts attest.

___________________

--From "World Beware: French Riots Affect Us All," The iPINIONS Journal,
November 8, 2005:

Reports are that young people in France's African (Muslim) communities erupted
in this nightmarish violence because they are fed up with chronic unemployment
and feelings of (religious and racial) discrimination and social alienation.
Indeed, just as young blacks in America fought against the virulent racism their
parents tolerated, it seems young Muslims in France are fighting against the
caste-like presumption that they too will supply the cheap labor for rich
Frenchmen their parents provided...

[T]he riots in France should serve notice on other developed nations that have
relegated the poor to ghettos, where crime and every order of vice pervade...
These riots demonstrate what little spark it takes for the simmering grievances
that define ghetto life to set cities ablaze and terrorize an entire country...

There but for the grace of God....

--From "Now London Is Burning," The iPINIONS Journal, August 9, 2011:

[T]he police shot and killed a suspected black 'gangster'... This ignited a
frenzy of rioting and looting the likes of which, alas, have become all too
familiar.

Indeed, this seems an uncanny repeat of similar riots that broke out in this
very neighborhood in 1985, after the police shot and killed a black woman during
a search of her home. And those riots occurred only one week after the more
infamous Brixton riots, which broke out after the police shot and killed another
black woman under very similar circumstances.

Notwithstanding the alleged police brutality that triggers them, the reason
riots continue to erupt in London is that political leaders fail to heed the
categorical imperative to address the chronic unemployment, racial/religious
discrimination, and social alienation that are the long-simmering sparks that
give rise to these periodic combustions...

I fully recognize that these riots reflect a poverty of values as much as a
poverty of needs. But this is what distinguishes middle-class anarchists and
yobs, who riot for opportunistic fun, from poor kids, who do so to vent a
lifetime of privation, victimization, alienation, and utter hopelessness...

This is why targeted and sustained socialization and assimilation programs in
chronically poor neighborhoods (focusing on everything from mandatory
extracurricular activities to mandatory job training) provide the only hope
against these recurring riots. Or, in language UK political leaders will better
understand, these amoral scavengers must be properly domesticated.

___________________

All the same, these protests in Israel are unique in at least one respect that
is worthy of comment. For, unlike blacks in the United States, blacks on the
front lines there are not descendants of slaves Israel's forefathers imported;
and, unlike blacks in Europe, they are not descendants of migrants from foreign
countries Israel colonized.

Instead, they are the offspring of African Jews who Israel -- the purported
homeland of all Jews -- airlifted from chronic privation and strife in Africa as
an article of religious faith. In fact, Israel made such a Pharisaic show of
airlifting them that it opened itself to ironic accusations of racism two years
ago, when it began repatriating non-Jewish Africans.

Here, in part, is how I defended Israel back then:

Any insinuation of racism (or indeed unfair treatment) is belied by 'Operation
Moses' -- Israel's covert evacuation of African Jews from Sudan for resettlement
in Israel to escape famine in 1984; and 'Operation Solomon' -- its equally
covert evacuation of almost 15,000 African Jews from Ethiopia for resettlement
in Israel to escape a looming civil war in 1991.

And let's face it, the Israelis have enough of a challenge trying to prevent
Palestinians (with their claim of a sacred 'right of return') from turning
Israel into another Arab state, without having to worry about non-Jewish
Africans creating demographic problems as well.

But frankly, given their tortured, itinerant history, who can blame these
modern-day Israelites for doing everything humanly (and humanely) possible to
ensure that nothing (think Iranian nukes) and nobody can threaten their
ownership and control of their Promised Land.

("Don't Blame Israel for Repatriating Africans," The iPINIONS Journal, July 17,
2013)

Therefore, imagine my dismay when I learned that Israel was treating these
"chosen" blacks (aka sons of the Cush) no differently than the United States
treated its legacy blacks, or Europe its colonial blacks.

A dismay that only became more acute when I read a May 3 editorial in the
Jerusalem Post. For it highlighted that black Jews demonstrate their gratitude
and loyalty to Israel by enlisting in the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) at a level
of eighty-six percent, compared to white Jews -- who enlist at just seventy-four
percent.

Incidentally, I am also dismayed that the American media dedicated more coverage
over the past few days to the inevitable breakup of Tiger Woods and Lindsey Vonn
than to this story. To say nothing of the coverage they dedicated to the birth
and naming of William and Kate's daughter.

More importantly, though, White Israelis aping the racism of White Americans and
White Europeans in this context smacks of a cardinal sin. I readily concede,
however, that -- if America's founding fathers could codify their racism --
Israel's leaders might be forgiven their attempts to gentrify theirs.

To be fair, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu condemned the beating of the black
IDF soldier that triggered these protests, and assured black Jews that those
responsible will be held to account. Except that this is the same prime minister
who, just two months ago, was:

--exhorting white Jews to rush to the polls to prevent Israeli citizens of Arab
descent from playing a pivotal role in national elections; and

--issuing a clarion call to European (white) Jews to come home -- based on
irrational fears of anti-Semitism in Europe and pursuant to his plan to offset
the growth of citizens of Arab and African descent in Israel.

I duly condemned him on both accounts in "Netanyahu's Call for Jewish Exodus
more Sharpton than Moses," The iPINIONS Journal, February 23, 2015. More to the
point, his exhortation and clarion call not only betray the institutional racism
that gave rise to the beating of that uniformed black soldier, but also explain
why black Jews are bound to regard his assurance in this case with existential
skepticism.

Meanwhile, here is how the Jerusalem Post echoed (in a May 4 editorial) what I
cited as the categorical imperative upon Israel to assimilate these black Jews:

We brought Ethiopian Jews home, but now we must make them feel at home, for
their sake as well as ours.

Blacks in Israel should not hold their breath, however. After all, editorials
have been championing the categorical imperative of assimilating blacks in the
United States for nearly 150 years.

Therefore, until the next trigger sets off racial protests there ... and over
here....

Related commentaries:

Israel Apartheid...

World beware: French riots...

Now London...

Repatriating Africans...

Netanyahu's call...

(ASTERISK) This commentary was originally published on Tuesday, May 5.

___ (c)2015 Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) Visit the
Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) at www.caribbeannewsnow.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150508-1CN-OPINION-US-style-racial-protests-erupt-in-Israel-20150508

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CN


        Copyright 2015 Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands


                             589 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 July 29, 2011
                                 First Edition

Electric Daisy's Hollywood premiere turns into 'near riot';
UNITED STATES

BYLINE: Guy Adams IN LOS ANGELES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 115 words


Police in Los Angeles are investigating the chain of events that led to what
they called a "near riot" at the Hollywood premiere of a film celebrating the
supposedly bonhomous atmosphere at a well-known dance music festival.

Officers in riot gear fired non-lethal rounds in an effort to disperse a
dangerously large crowd of mostly young revellers who gathered outside Grauman's
Chinese Theater on Hollywood Boulevard for Wednesday's premiere of a documentary
about the annual Electric Daisy Carnival.

Dozens of arrests were reported and at least two people charged with felony
vandalism.

News broadcasts showed footage of police cars set on fire, bottles being thrown,
and store windows smashed.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             590 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 30, 2012
                                 First Edition

Letter from the executive editor

BYLINE: Stefano Hatfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 268 words


The executive summary of the 1,987-page Leveson Report runs to 46 pages itself.
Imagine if the good Lord Justice were trying to edit an average day's i, along
with the rest of the day's news!

We have tried to précis it to a length of interest to you - not forgetting it
should not take up more space than we would give other major stories: be they
the riots, US elections or overthrow of Arab tyrants. The press is better
looking outwards. Overnight, lest we forget, the UN has voted on the status of
Palestine (p23).

In today's i you will find the report digested and analysed, plus the views of
an editor, a regulator, a politician and a victim. My view? I am proud to be a
journalist. But, the past couple of years have seen my trade called into
disrepute more than at any other time in my working life. It was regrettable
that the Prime Minister saw fit in a moment of personal difficulty to call the
inquiry in the first place, and that it subsequently moved so far away from
phone hacking. But you might disagree with me.

As Leveson said pointedly, this is the seventh report into the press in 70
years. 20 years ago we were "drinking in the last chance saloon". To put it
bluntly, with our cherished freedom comes a responsibility not to abuse it.

As such, Leveson's verdict could have been so much worse. The Independent and i
accept its findings. Much of the subsequent chatter will hinge on the chosen
interpretation of "self-regulation with statutory under-pinning".

Let's chew over it, get your feedback, analyse that and then move on, bluntly,
to matters of more importance to you.

twitter.com/stefanohat

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             591 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  June 3, 2014
                                 First Edition

TUE 03 JUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 63 words


Quote of the day 'Opportunity is missed by most people because it is dressed in
overalls and looks like work' THOMAS EDISON Birthdays Ian Hunter, musician, 75;
Rafael Nadal, tennis player, 28; Suzi Quatro, musician, 64; Penelope Wilton,
actress, 68 Anniversaries Thursday 3 June 1943 In the first of the 'Zoot Suit
Riots', US sailors and marines fought Latino youths in Los Angeles

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             592 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 20, 2014
                                 First Edition

Shots fired and Molotov cocktails are thrown in latest race riots;
UNITED STATES

BYLINE: David Usborne IN FERGUSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 442 words


American politicians sought to prevent another night of violence in the St Louis
suburb of Ferguson last night, which has been rocked by racially charged riots
after a white officer killed Michael Brown, an unarmed black man, 10 days ago.

Another round of clashes erupted between police and protesters on Monday night,
and officers used loudspeakers to order them to disperse. Police fired tear gas
and flash grenades, and deployed sonic cannons and armoured vehicles to push
demonstrators back.

Molotov cocktails and bottles were thrown by the crowd and some officers came
under heavy gunfire, said Capt Ron Johnson of the Missouri Highway Patrol, who
is in charge of security in Ferguson. The National Guard arrived but kept its
distance.

At least two people were shot and 31 were arrested, he said. Four officers were
injured by rocks or bottles. A photographer and two reporters were arrested and
later released.

Many feared the police's hard line would further inflame the situation. Senator
Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat who travelled to Ferguson yesterday said
the policing was wrong.

"We overpoliced for a few days, and then we completely underpoliced," she told
US TV.

On Monday, President Barack Obama said he told the Missouri Governor Jay Nixon
that use of the National Guard should be limited, and he also called for
conciliation. The Attorney General Eric Holder plans to visit Ferguson.

The latest clashes came after a day in which a pathologist hired by the family
of Michael Brown's family said the 18-year-old suffered a bullet wound to his
right arm that may indicate his hands were up or his back was turned. But the
pathologist said the team that examined Mr Brown cannot be sure yet exactly how
the wounds were inflicted until they have more information.

Ferguson, a community of roughly 21,000 mostly black residents, has a long
history of racial tension. Blacks have complained of police harassment and
under-representation in city leadership.

The depth of this distrust between the community and the police becomes obvious
in polling. While the unrest was occurring in Missouri, almost two-thirds of
blacks surveyed by the Pew Research Centre said police went too far in their
response to the Ferguson protests, while only one-third of whites agreed and
another third said the police response has been about right.

The US Attorney General, Eric Holder, has opened his own investigation into what
happened to Mr Brown, and the America's most senior lawyer will arrive in
Ferguson today to asses the situation for himself.

Louis International Airport Ferguson Mississippi River St Louis 2 miles M I S S
O U R I ILLINOIS Area of protests

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             593 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 23, 2015
                                 First Edition

Video of new police shooting threatens to spark riots;
UNITED STATES

BYLINE: David Usborne US EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 277 words


Tensions over policing tactics and race relations were threatening to escalate
in the United States once more last night after a graphic video emerged of a
fatal confrontation in New Jersey between two patrol officers and two
African-American men they had pulled over in their Jaguar for jumping a red
light.

At the same time there were reports the US Justice Department was moving towards
clearing of all wrongdoing the police officer who opened fire and killed the
unarmed black teenager Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, last summer,
touching off months of anti-police marches there and across America.

Protesters took to the streets of the mostly minority community of Bridgeton,
New Jersey, just south of Philadelphia, on Wednesday night in response to the
new footage.

Taken by a camera in the police patrol car, it showed what apparently started as
a routine stop spiralling into confrontation as one of the officers shouts to
his partner that he has seen a gun in the glove compartment.

After the officer yells, "Show me your hands!" and "don't you fu**ing move", the
passenger steps out with his hands raised. The officers are seen to open fire,
killing the man, 36-year-old Jerame Reid. The officers, identified as Braheme
Days, who is black, and Roger Worley, who is white, have been placed on leave
pending an investigation.

The killing, on 30 December, is drawing condemnation from civil rights and
community leaders.

"The video speaks for itself that at no point was Jerame Reid a threat and he
possessed no weapon on his person," Walter Hudson, chairman of the National
Awareness Alliance, said. "He complied with the officer and the officer shot
him."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             594 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                              N - Canberra Edition

The people's eyes are bright, discerning and not amused

BYLINE: Stephen Smith, Paul McGeough, Nathan Rees

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 755 words


On August 15, Xinhua News Agency delivers The Australian's foreign editor Greg
Sheridan a Chinese burn

A LENGTHY article by an editor on Australia's biggest selling national newspaper
on Thursday instructing notorious separatist Rebiya Kadeer on how to counter
China is an open violation of a journalist's professional ethics. During
Rebiya's visit to Australia, Greg Sheridan, an editor of The Australian, also
wrote another report ``praising'' her ``courage'' to confront the Chinese
government.

It is hard to understand why a journalist, deviating from the professional
ethics of objectivity and fairness, openly played the role of an ``adviser'' for
a foreign separatist. Last year, after the Tibet riots, the US Cable News
Network (CNN) commentator Jack Cafferty referred to the Chinese as ``basically
the same bunch of goons and thugs they've been for the last 50 years.''

This year, an editor named Sheridan virtually claimed himself to be a ``policy
think tank'' against China for separatists. According to Western journalism, the
right to judge the news rests with the readers. As a Chinese saying goes, ``the
people's eyes are bright and discerning''. Media and journalists should learn a
lesson from Sheridan's actions or risk becoming a laughing stock around the
world.

Stephen Smith in question time on Tuesday confirms Greg Sheridan's page 1 story
about Australia's deteriorating relationship with China:

As a consequence of Australia granting (Kadeer) a visa ... the Chinese
authorities made it very clear to Australian officials that they were most
unhappy with her visit. As a consequence of her visit, they indicated to
Australia that the proposed visit to Australia of Vice-Minister He to attend the
Pacific Islands Forum post-forum Dialogue would not occur. They indicated that
China would be represented by an ambassador and that, as a consequence of
Vice-Minister He not attending the Pacific Islands Forum post-forum dialogue,
the proposed and scheduled senior officials meeting between Australia and China
would not (take place).

From time to time in any bilateral relationship there will be difficulties.
These difficulties need to be managed carefully and successfully, as Australia
is currently managing difficulties that we have in our relationship with China
in particular, the visit of Rebiya Kadeer to Australia and the Stern Hu case. I
make this final point: if China takes any further action in response to our
decision, that will be for us a matter of regret. But we will deal with that
matter sensibly, and we will not resort to the flip-flop politicking that the
opposition makes of our relationship with China. I vaguely remember the Leader
of the Opposition saying to the government some time ago that we should stand up
to China. We did on the Rebiya Kadeer issue.

There are people Fairfax reporter Paul McGeough doesn't like much. Radio
National's Breakfast program yesterday:

AFGHAN politics is very much about horse-trading. The calibre of the deals that
(President Hamad) Karzai has done border frankly on the disgusting. He has freed
drug traffickers from jail, he has pardoned gang rapists in the most vile
circumstances. He has signed off on a law that obliges women to have sex from
their husbands or their husbands can withhold food and shelter from them. He has
brought back into his circle half a dozen of the worst warlords of the 1990s.
They are feared and they are loathed by the bulk of the population. He has
promised more government offices than there are provinces to govern. As my
friend put it yesterday, he is carrying so many bad mortgages he is a bad bank.

And there are people he likes. Paul McGeough in the New York Times on April 12,
2009:

WHEN I talked with Mr Mashal in 2007, I was interviewing him for my book on an
attempted assassination in the streets of Amman, Jordan, in September 1997. Then
a midlevel operative in Hamas, Mr Mashal was the intended victim.

Paul McGeough in the Columbia Review of Journalism, February 11, 2009, finds the
word terrorist too harsh for Hamas:

RATHER than describe Hamas as a terrorist group, I would say they're a group
that uses terror as a weapon and I think there's a significant difference there.

NSW Premier Nathan Rees plays the Nazi card in an address to scientists at the
Eureka Awards on Tuesday:

THE threat of climate change is catastrophic. In fact, the current wave of
climate change scepticism smacks of 1930s-style appeasement: ``Hide under the
blankets and it will go away'. But it won't go away.

cutpaste@theaustralian.com.au

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             595 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

The people's eyes are bright, discerning and not amused

BYLINE: Stephen Smith, Paul McGeough, Nathan Rees

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 732 words


On August 15, Xinhua News Agency delivers The Australian's foreign editor Greg
Sheridan a Chinese burn

A LENGTHY article by an editor on Australia's biggest selling national newspaper
on Thursday instructing notorious separatist Rebiya Kadeer on how to counter
China is an open violation of a journalist's professional ethics. During
Rebiya's visit to Australia, Greg Sheridan, an editor of The Australian, also
wrote another report ``praising'' her ``courage'' to confront the Chinese
government.

It is hard to understand why a journalist, deviating from the professional
ethics of objectivity and fairness, openly played the role of an ``adviser'' for
a foreign separatist. Last year, after the Tibet riots, the US Cable News
Network (CNN) commentator Jack Cafferty referred to the Chinese as ``basically
the same bunch of goons and thugs they've been for the last 50 years.''

This year, an editor named Sheridan virtually claimed himself to be a ``policy
think tank'' against China for separatists. According to Western journalism, the
right to judge the news rests with the readers. As a Chinese saying goes, ``the
people's eyes are bright and discerning''. Media and journalists should learn a
lesson from Sheridan's actions or risk becoming a laughing stock around the
world.

Stephen Smith in Question Time on Tuesday defends Greg Sheridan:

(JULIE Bishop's) question no doubt arises as a result of the report on the front
page of today's Australian newspaper, a primary source for her. The Chinese
authorities made it very clear to Australian officials that they were most
unhappy with her visit. But we will deal with that matter sensibly, and we will
not resort to the flip-flop politicking that the opposition makes of our
relationship with China. I vaguely remember the Leader of the Opposition saying
to the government some time ago that we should stand up to China. We did on the
Rebiya Kadeer issue.

There are people Fairfax reporter Paul McGeough doesn't like much. Radio
National's Breakfast program yesterday:

AFGHAN politics is very much about horse trading. The calibre of the deals that
(President Hamad) Karzai has done border frankly on the disgusting. He has freed
drug traffickers from jail, he has pardoned gang rapists in the most vile
circumstances. He has signed off on a law that obliges women to have sex from
their husbands or their husbands can withhold food and shelter from them. He has
brought back into his circle half a dozen of the worst warlords of the 1990s.
They are feared and they are loathed by the bulk of the population. He has
promised more government offices than there are provinces to govern. As my
friend put it yesterday, he is carrying so many bad mortgages he is a bad bank.

The Pakistan Daily Times July 19, 2004:

THE US media has surprisingly failed to pick up the shocking disclosure by
Sydney Morning Herald, Australia's leading newspaper, that the Iraqi Prime
Minister Iyad Allawi personally executed six suspected insurgents in a Baghdad
police station. The story by award-winning Australian journalist Paul McGeough
said that the prisoners were handcuffed and blindfolded, lined up against a
courtyard wall and shot by the Iraqi PM.

And there are people he likes. Paul McGeough in the New York Times on April 12,
2009:

WHEN I talked with Mr Mashal in 2007, I was interviewing him for my book on an
attempted assassination in the streets of Amman, Jordan, in September 1997. Then
a midlevel operative in Hamas, Mr Mashal was the intended victim.

Paul McGeough admits in The Age on March 21, 2009, what is involved in rising
through the ranks of Hamas:

THE Palestinian resistance leader, whose suicide bombers and assassins have
taken their own toll on Israeli life over the years, then declares his would-be
killer to be a man of straw.

Paul McGeough in the Columbia Review of Journalism, February 11, 2009, finds the
word terrorist too harsh for Hamas:

RATHER than describe Hamas as a terrorist group, I would say they're a group
that uses terror as a weapon and I think there's a significant difference there.

NSW Premier Nathan Rees plays the Nazi card in an address to scientists at the
Eureka Awards on Tuesday:

THE threat of climate change is catastrophic. In fact, the current wave of
climate change scepticism smacks of 1930s-style appeasement: ``Hide under the
blankets and it will go away'. But it won't go away.

cutpaste@theaustralian.com.au

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             596 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

1984 riots: US court orders initial status conference against Sonia Gandhi

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: CHANDIGARH


CHANDIGARH, Oct. 18 -- A US Federal Court has ordered initial status conference
in the pending case against Congress chief Sonia Gandhi for shielding human
rights violators. Judge Brian M Cogan will hold the status conference on October
22 in accordance with the Rule 16 of Federal Rules of Civil Procedures.

The rule provides that the court may hold the conferences for the purpose of:
(1) expediting disposition of the action; (2) establishing early and continuing
control so that the case will not be protracted because of lack of management;
(3) discouraging wasteful pretrial activities; (4) improving the quality of the
trial through more thorough preparation; and (5) facilitating settlement.

The court had issued her summons based on a complaint filed by riot victims,
alleging that she has been shielding Kamal Nath, Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler
from prosecution.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             597 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

1984 riots: US court calls Sonia Gandhi

LENGTH: 179 words

DATELINE: CHANDIGARH


CHANDIGARH, Oct. 18 -- A US Federal Court has ordered initial status conference
in the pending case against Congress chief Sonia Gandhi for shielding human
rights violators. Judge Brian M Cogan will hold the status conference on October
22 in accordance with the Rule 16 of Federal Rules of Civil Procedures.

The rule provides that the court may hold the conferences for the purpose of:
(1) expediting disposition of the action; (2) establishing early and continuing
control so that the case will not be protracted because of lack of management;
(3) discouraging wasteful pretrial activities; (4) improving the quality of the
trial through more thorough preparation; and (5) facilitating settlement.

The court had issued her summons based on a complaint filed by riot victims,
alleging that she has been shielding Kamal Nath, Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler
from prosecution.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             598 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            October 18, 2013 Friday

1984 riots : US court calls Sonia for status conference

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: CHANDIGARH


CHANDIGARH, Oct. 18 -- A US Federal Court has ordered initial status conference
in the pending case against Congress chief Sonia Gandhi for shielding human
rights violators.

Judge Brian M Cogan will hold the status conference on October 22 in accordance
with the Rule 16 of Federal Rules of Civil Procedures.

The rule provides that the court may hold the conferences for the purpose of:
(1) expediting disposition of the action; (2) establishing early and continuing
control so that the case will not be protracted because of lack of management;
(3) discouraging wasteful pretrial activities; (4) improving the quality of the
trial through more thorough preparation; and (5) facilitating settlement.

The court had during Sonia's visit to the US in September issued summons against
her based on a complaint filed by victims of the 1984 riots, alleging that she
has been shielding Kamal Nath, Sajjan Kumar, Jagdish Tytler and other Congress
leaders from prosecution for their role in genocidal attacks against the Sikhs.

Rights group Sikhs for Justice after being unable to deliver the summons to
Sonia, had secured an order from the court to accomplish the task by delivering
a copy of the summons and complaint to hospital staff at Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Centre or to any of the security agents assigned to
Sonia, who would be directed to give the same to the Congress chief.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             599 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday

'84 Riots: US Court to Hear Cong Motion

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: CHANDIGARH


CHANDIGARH, Jan. 30 -- US Federal Judge Robert W Sweet will hear on March 19 a
motion by the Congress seeking dismissal of a pending human rights violation law
suit against it in connection with the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.

Before the Court, the Congress is facing the charges of conspiring, aiding,
abetting, organising and carrying out attacks on the Sikhs after the
assassination of Indira Gandhi in 1984.

The case of genocide against the Congress was filed by survivors of riots and
the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), a human rights group.

The Congress filed a motion before the US Federal Court of Southern District of
New York on January 17 seeking dismissal of the case. The Congress motion is
based on lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, failure to state a claim, expiry
of statute of limitation and SJF's legal standing to file the case.

The SFJ and riots survivors have been given time till February 17 to file their
responses to the Congress motion.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             600 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             May 14, 2014 Wednesday

US Hails Marathon Polls, BJP Dubs it Modi Endorsement

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


NEW DELHI, May 14 -- Hours after exit polls projected Narendra Modi as the next
Prime Minister, two statements from the US praised India for conducting its
largest-ever elections and pledged to work closely with the new government, and
the BJP termed it an endorsement of its prime ministerial candidate.

A statement released by President Barack Obama said India had set an "example
for the world in holding the largest democratic election in history, a vibrant
demonstration of our shared values of diversity and freedom".

The US President's ringing endorsement for Indian democracy was immediately
greeted by the BJP, buoyed by the exit polls conducted by TV channels indicating
that the NDA will form the next government. "What Obama says shows in which
direction the wind is blowing," BJP spokesperson Prakash Javadekar said.

US Department of State spokesperson Jen Psaki congratulated "people of India on
their participation in the largest-ever free and fair democratic election in
human history".

"These elections are an inspiring example of the power of the democratic process
in action, and the US, like so many others around the world, has great
admiration and respect for the vibrancy, diversity, and resilience of India's
democracy," she said in Washington.

"We look forward to working with the leaders chosen by the Indian people to
advance this important partnership and to set an ambitious agenda."

Modi is the only foreign government official who has been denied a visa under
the US International Religious Freedom Act, for his alleged complicity in the
2002 Gujarat riots.

The US had also put an informal embargo on any contact between the US ambassador
and Gujarat Government after the visa denial in 2005, though the US
consul-general in Mumbai had kept in touch with the Gujarat Chief Minister.

The US had softened its stance on Modi in the past few months, when it became
clear that the BJP was leading in the opinion polls.

And US ambassador Nancy Powell travelled to Gandhinagar to meet Modi in
February.

A month later, the US Congressional Research Service issued a report on the
legal scenario if Modi had to travel to Washington as the Prime Minister.

"If Narendra Modi were to become Prime Minister of India, he would automatically
be eligible for an A-1 (diplomatic) visa as Head of State, regardless of the
purpose of his visit," said a Congressional memorandum dated March 18.

Meanwhile, Indian-American strategic analyst Ashley Tellis, writing for premier
US think tank Carnegie Endowment, acknowledged on Monday that while Modi had
said bilateral relations could not be influenced by incidents related to an
individual, the slight might still cast a shadow.

Even though Tellis felt that Modi was pragmatic enough to go as per Indian
national interests to increase the engagement with the US, he asserted that
Washington also should do "extraordinary personal outreach to a miffed Modi,
given both his past encounter with US policy and the larger American stakes in
India's success, not to mention the importance of promoting peace and prosperity
within Southern Asia writ large".

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             601 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                          February 12, 2014 Wednesday

US finally warms up to Modi

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, Feb. 12 -- In a rather belated recognition of the Indian political
currents, the United States has finally decided to end its nine-year boycott of
Narendra Modi, with its India envoy Nancy Powell set to meet him in Gandhinagar
on Thursday.

The US turnaround comes long after the European nations and Australia began
warming up to the Gujarat Chief Minister and BJP's prime ministerial candidate.
Britain, in fact, ended its boycott of Modi back in October 2012.

Confirming Ambassador Powell's upcoming meeting with Modi, a State Department
spokesperson said: "This is part of our concerted outreach to senior political
and business leaders which began in November to highlight the US-India
relationship."

With opinion polls broadly favouring Modi and his BJP-led NDA in the ensuing
general elections, there has been intense speculation in recent months that
Washington would begin reaching out to him.

The Obama administration was apparently in the process of taking stock of the
political developments when the unexpected diplomatic crisis triggered by the
arrest and strip-search of Indian diplomat Devyani Khobragade prompted it to put
off the "outreach" to Modi.

Some analysts believe the US should have acted much earlier. Terming the
exercise "long overdue", noted South Asia watcher Lisa Curtis commented: "The US
should have reached out to Modi shortly after it was clear he would be leading
the BJP in May's national elections."

"Nevertheless, this is a good step that will allow the US to engage with Modi
before the campaign season is in full steam," noted Curtis, a former State
Department staffer and now a senior fellow with the Washington-based Heritage
Foundation. The American coldshouldering of Modi had begun in March 2005, when
the US Government rejected his application for a visa to visit the country to
address an Asian-American business convention.

Citing "serious violations of religious freedom" in the wake of the 2002 Gujarat
riots, the US authorities not only denied him a diplomatic visa, but also
revoked the tourist/business visa which he was holding.

Although he received periodic invitations from Indian-American organisations to
the visit the United States over the past several years, Modi did not apply for
any US visa after the 2005 rejection. Instead, he addressed the NRI bodies
through satellite hook-ups on a few occasions.

Some Indian-American groups have been working hard in recent years to get the US
government to change its position vis-a-vis Modi. Last March, Chicago
businessman Shalabh Kumar had organised the visit by three Republican lawmakers
along with a business delegation to Gandhinagar for a meeting with Modi.

The US chapter of Overseas Friends of BJP was quick to welcome the Obama
administration's decision. "We highly appreciate the decision taken by US
President Barack Obama, and Secretary of State John Kerry. This would further
help in strengthening of Indo-US relationship," said OFBJP-US president
Chandrakant Patel.

"Modi is the most popular leader of the country right now. Given that he has
been given clean chit by all the courts in India, it was not fair on the part of
the US to not to have relationship with Modi," he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             602 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            November 4, 2014 Tuesday

It's official, US to take part in Vibrant Gujarat Summit

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: GANDHINAGAR


GANDHINAGAR, Nov. 4 -- The United States of America (USA) is set to join the
Vibrant Gujarat Global Investor Summit (VGGIS) bandwagon along with seven other
nations as a partner country.

The Gujarat Government on Monday disclosed that the Ambassador of USA in India,
Kathlene Stephens accepted the State Government's invitation to become a partner
country in the biennial event, which will be inaugurated by Prime Minister
Narendra Modi in January 2015 in Gujarat's capital Gandhinagar.

On October 17 this year, US Consul General posted at the US Consulate in Mumbai,
Tom Vajda expressed desire on behalf of the US Government to become partner
country in VGGIS-2015 to be held during January 11 to 13. Responding to the
proposal letter of the US Government, the Gujarat Government extended official
invitation to the Ambassador of USA.

Brainchild of Narendra Modi - VGGIS - was initiated in the year 2003 as a
platform to showcase Gujarat as global investment destination. During Modi's
prolong tenure of 13 years as Chief Minister; Gujarat successfully organised six
editions of VGGIS successfully. However, the US Government did not take part in
all Vibrant Gujarat events as it had cut down all diplomatic relations with
Gujarat in wake of 2002 communal riots. The US Government also rejected
diplomatic visa of Narendra Modi in the year 2005.

It was only after the announcement of Narendra Modi as BJP's prime ministerial
candidate in September 2013, the US Government took strategic initiative to
improve relations with Gujarat. Ahead of the Lok Sabha elections, then US
Ambassador to India - Nancy Powel - made it a point and met Modi at the State
capital in February 2014. As a result of Modi's much talked about visit to USA
in September this year, the US Government finally zeroed in on the VGGIS. Apart
from USA, seven other countries including Canada, Japan, Great Britain, the
Netherlands, Australia, Singapore and South Africa are on-board of the seventh
edition of VGGIS as partner countries.

"The US Government has shown keenness to have American Pavilion in VGGIS-2015
trade show. USA also plans to hold a country seminar to create awareness on
Indo-US trade. The US Government's thrust will be on tourism and education,"
said Gujarat Government's spokesman and senior Minister Nitin Patel, adding that
the USA decided to join the event as partner country after successful meeting
between Gujarat Chief Minister Anandiben Patel and US ambassador Kathlene
Stephens on October 20th this year.

The brand "Vibrant Gujarat" as an 'Investors' Summit' has now evolved into an
ideal platform for knowledge sharing, social and business transformation, said
Patel, adding, "The summit gradually evolved into a round-the-year investment
promotion exercise with events scheduled well in advance of the main Summit
planned in 2015."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             603 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

SUCH VIOLENCE, AND SUCH SHAME

LENGTH: 633 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Nov. 26 -- In Ferguson in Missouri USA, a grand jury verdict that did
not find a police officer who shot dead an unarmed black kid fit to be indicted,
has set that part of the country alight.

Looting and rioting began afresh barely two months after Michael Brown the
teenager was shot down and there was a bout of civil disobedience and violence.
This kind of white on black violence by white men, white vigilantes and white
policemen on the streets of the United States is now so common that the court
judgment on the indictment did not come as a surprise to anyone.

It is precisely this kind of attitude by law enforcement and the judiciary that
has spawned the routine violence and protests that are borne out of frustration
at the fact that blacks in the US do not feel safe -- and cannot do anything
about it.

The riots do not seem to be able to accomplish anything except get more black
men arrested, and the only way in which this situation can be turned around
seems to be by intervention of the divine.

Perhaps there would be another Martin Luther King, who would be able to knock
sense into the pillars of the American Establishment.

The police officer was able to walk off without a rap on his knuckles or any
censure by the Judge, and when these types of incidents are repeated with the
regularity that guns go off in the United States, the blacks think that their
constitutional right to civil disobedience is the only alternative they have
left.

Those who condemn the riots and say blithely with more than a trace of racist
bias that the violence by folk in black communities such as Ferguson is 'to be
expected', lack in empathy and are unable to understand the extent of the
anxieties and the frustrations of African Americans who have watched for too
long the treatment of black people, as if they are Americans that belong to a
lesser God.

It can be very safely wagered that there will be many more Fergusons in the
United States and many more conflagrations and expressions of dissatisfaction
with the way things are turning out with regard to race relations between blacks
and whites in America.

What is being done about such a calamity?

Nothing at all, and this is the real problem. The white run Establishment,
despite the black President is tone deaf to the sensitivities of the black
people, and it appears that the top echelon of Law Enforcement want to rub it in
by deliberately snorting at black resistance to white strong arm tactics.

It's why there is a sense of utter helplessness that has been engendered
resulting in reactions that show that black parents in particular are at the end
of their tethers, and simply do not know what to do.

It's why for instance Michael Brown's parents have taken their case to the UN
Human Rights Council which may look as if it is a bewildering reaction, though
in fact it is not so surprising, considering the past experiences of black
parents who have faced similar situations as the Brown family do now.

The rioting has now spread to the East Coast and West, from New York to Los
Angeles. Though riots hardly seem the appropriate response for anything, under
the circumstances what other wake up call can be given except civil
disobedience?

As the mother of the dead boy asked after the policeman was let off by court on
the excuse that he was defending himself -- 'defending himself from what?'

The boy was unarmed. He was raising his hands, but was shot down like a dog on
the streets. This is now regulation behaviour for white cops confronting black
kids. So why then is President Obama feigning surprise that there are riots?

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             604 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily News (Sri Lanka)

                            December 9, 2014 Tuesday

The common candidacy comes apart at the seams

LENGTH: 2099 words

DATELINE: Sri Lanka


Sri Lanka, Dec. 9 -- The first week of the opposition's campaign against the
national government of President Rajapaksa has showed that the campaign as well
as the 'alliance of convenience' behind it is a shambles. There simply is no
other description that fits the pathetic state of the hateful campaign initiated
by disparate group of desperate individuals hiding behind a so-called common
candidate -The so-called New Democratic Front is simply an alliance of
rent-seekers without a real or reasonable rationale to base a campaign against a
nation recovering admirably from the ravages of 30 years of war.

The opposition decision to attempt a "common candidate", yet again, against
President Rajapaksa reflects the instructions of the US and UK neocon forces to
Chandrika Bandaranaike and Ranil Wickremesinghe, their choice to prop up a
puppet government. They have clearly worked with Kumaratunga in London over the
last several years and the conspiracy appears to be the only 'learning' Ranil
Wickremesinghe received during two stints of three week 'residencies' at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), first in 2006 in the immediate
aftermath of his loss to President Rajapaksa, and then in April 2014 while he
continued to be in political wilderness.

Fingerprints of the UK-US cabal are visible all over the design and the
execution of the faltering campaign of Maithripala Sirisena. All the steps in
the doomed campaign have come directly from the CIA "How to Beat an Incumbent"
playbook strategy of "3Ds" (define the opponent, draw a contrast and define the
agenda), written for neocon agents in developing countries.

At the broadest level, the strategy behind the conspiracy to seduce a candidate
with a rural, Sinhala Buddhist background - despite the person's obvious
inability to match President Rajapaksa's 'little toe' on management skills and
charisma - was clearly an attempt to deploy the age-old ploy of 'divide and
rule' the British are adept at.

Harping on about family rule, corruption and too much executive power in the
hands of the president is an attempt to "define" President Rajapaksa as a
corrupt dictator - the usual CIA lie against all strong, independent-minded,
nationalistic leaders around the world; then they try to "draw" Sirisena as a
squeaky clean, principled operator in this mythical jungle of corruption; next
they "define the agenda" by promising a turnaround and a utopia in 100 days.

Despite the intervention of MI6 and CIA planners, the incoherent situation was
unavoidable: the terminal weakness of the opposition campaign lies in the lack
of real substance underneath the slogans of family rule, corruption and
executive presidency that are essentially contrived; adding to the problems of a
campaign strategy based on mere innuendos of corruption and abuse of power are
the credibility issues relating to those levelling the charges.

Obviously, the CIA planners have not thought hard enough about the sophisticated
voters' questions on Chandrika's and Ranil's own genesis in politics, purely
through family connections, and their un-kept promises to abolish the executive
presidency. They certainly have not been overly smart in recruiting the only
past Sri Lankan president branded by the Supreme Court of the country as
"corrupt" to do their bidding through a trumped-up anti-corruption campaign.

As to Sirisena's own allegations about rampant corruption and intolerable family
rule, he is yet to answer question as to why he kept quiet for so long about
alleged corruption and how he thinks the re-entry of Chandrika, of all people,
would resolve any issues of family rule. The questions give the lie to
Sirisena's claims of being altruistically motivated, and expose his grudge
against not being appointed prime minister as the real reason for his defection.

The country knows that Chandrika Kumaratunga is saddled with a record that is
simply irreconcilable with her British-inspired role to lead a campaign against
alleged family rule and alleged corruption. Her legendarily chaotic approach to
the mundane task of time management and her incompetence in dealing with
existential threats to national security - in the form of the LTTE and 'the
vile' Eric Solheim - has shown that she did not have even the minimum level
skills in managing her own personal affairs, let alone sound judgment to steer
the country at troubled times.

Kumaratunga has demonstrated through (lack of) performance in the job that her
elevation would not have occurred if not for family circumstances. Her record on
corruptly handing over state land to cronies makes her promises to free the
country of corruption a bad joke!

Protests about 'family rule' by a collective of individuals made up of Chandrika
Kumaratunga, Ranil Wickremesinghe, Sajith Premadasa, Mangala Samaraweera, Navin
Dissanayake and others - a group of desperados who rely on their own political
'inheritance' as the crutch for political survival is an attempted insult on the
intelligence of the Sri Lankan people.

The transparent attempt to dishonestly preserve their own 'birth-right' to rule
the country as a campaign to 'free' the country of family rule will not survive
public scrutiny. Nor has Navin Dissanayake improved his credentials on
truthfulness by refusing to take allegations of offers of a bribe - an excessive
one by any measure of his political worth to any campaign - to the police.

A MoU between political non-entities

There are significant, un-answered questions relating to the political
constituencies of the signatories to the MoU, including those who 'partly'
signed, those supporting the movement without signing it and others in-between.
A cursory look at the group shows that they are a disparate collective united
only by political envy and jealousy of the popularity being enjoyed by President
Rajapaksa and his development program.

An obvious question on the lips of the confused public is as to whom Chandrika
Kumaratunga really represents these days, other than the British colonial
interests in Sri Lanka; If Ranil Wickremesinghe is claiming to represent the
UNP, why could not he, or did not he, put forward his own candidacy to contest
President Rajapaksa?

The first failure of Chandrika to "deliver" on her promise to ensure the
cross-over of 60 members of the UPFA with Sirisena surfaced immediate following
the euphoria that accompanied the "coup" of Sirisena's defection. The failure
deflated Chandrika's grandiose hopes of defeating the 2015 budget - her primary
aim in "re-entering" politics - that pruned her retirement privileges. Clearly
her influence on the SLFP is overrated, and she hardly has any credibility or
support among the ordinary people of Sri Lanka.

Obvious cracks within the UNP "support" for the Sirisena candidacy began to show
up in less than 48 hours after the signing of the MoU, with the Party's general
secretary Tissa Attanayake, Daya Gamage, Mangala Samaraweera and Sajith
Premadasa starting to pull in different directions. Sirisena was accompanied on
important campaign events only by Karu Jayasuriya, a man without a recognisable
profile in the country.

Other signatories who aspire to be political operators, like the Ven. Maduluwawe
Sobhitha Thera and Athuraliye Rathana Thera are clearly attempting to punch
above their weight in political terms, for there is no support in terms of the
membership numbers of their respective fancy-named groupings that could justify
the noises they are making about the running of the country. Besides, they seem
to have forgotten that politics is a laymen's' worldly affair and the monk's
role should be limited to offer advice to rulers, in the time honoured
traditions of Sri Lanka.

The intentions behind that political force of one, Sarath Fonseka, signing the
MoU after much dilly-dallying are clear: he signed after obtaining promises to
restore his lost 'rights' including a 'promotion' to field marshal rank, and the
post of defence minister. Fonseka's behaviour is rent seeking at its worst, but
he is certainly no stranger to entertaining wildly unrealistic dreams of
grandeur! Other political loose-canons among the signatories, like Rajitha
Senaratne and Arjuna Ranatunga, are not worth spending any time on.

The TNA, true to their cunning ways, are delaying the formal arrangement with
the alliance, clearly on tactical grounds. The latest is that they will only
announce their position in the third week of December, clearly intending to
drown the announcement in the festive cheer. It is no secret that they are
revelling at the promised dilution of presidential powers, for that would remove
the single most powerful obstacle to them gaining a separate state; they are in
no hurry to play their cards for the fear of a Sinhala backlash against
Sirisena.

The common candidate promises to be everything to every person

The list of promises announced with the signing of the MoU has proven to be a
moving feast. It started as a promise to abolish the executive presidency within
100 days, after forming an all-party government for a period of two years. The
MoU also promised the 'wholesome' agenda of putting an "immediate end" to (the
largely imagined) large-scale fraud, bribery, corruption and waste of public
funds and to "restore" the rule of law, democracy, safeguarding the fundamental
rights, media freedom - all within the first 100 days. Promise was also made to
promise anything not promised in the original MoU, during the campaign. A case
of formulating objectives and policies on the move!

The apparent lack of any legal forethought to Sirisena's election promises make
a mockery of their platitude to restore the rule of law, for a legal basis to
deliver the promises - on transferring power to the prime minister, choosing
Ranil as prime minister, and to abolish executive presidency - simply does not
exist in the constitution; no one within the collective seems to have noted that
the president has no power to abolish the executive presidency, with only the
parliament with a two-third majority, and a majority in a referendum, would be
in a position to abolish the executive presidency.

Unable to answer the emerging questions about the detail of the promises,
Sirisena was pathetically attempting to recast them: in response to questions
about the worrisome implications of any dilution of presidential powers on the
provincial councils, Sirisena was reduced to 'amend' the promise to retaining
"certain duties and functions" vested to the President. He desperately attempted
to defer the inevitable by referring to a government of National Unity for two
years, to serve as a "cure all".

Sirisena's promises on the economy were no better. They were full of waffly
platitudes such as, "The economic policy when we form a government will be an
open economy" and "We can give more benefits from development to the public".
Other promises such as the promise to eliminating corruption in 100 days are so
inane as not to deserve serious comment.

The most worrying aspect of the glaring dishonesty of the common candidate
campaign, and its piercing incompetency is having to contemplate the likely
implications on the country of the unlikely prospect of such a group of
individuals succeeding at the elections; the Sri Lankan voters however, have
demonstrated that they know a fraud when they see one!

Michelle Sison hoisted with her own petard

There is dangerous, topical irony in the revelations. Just hours before her
departure from our shores - prompted by revelations of the USAID Twitter
campaign to ignite Aluthgama riots - that the US Ambassador Michelle Sison
attempted to bribe Resettlement Minister Guneratne Weerakoon. This, at the same
time they have been orchestrating an anti-government campaign based on charges
of bribery and corruption in Sri Lanka.

Sison's response to the allegations, backed up by voice recordings and the
presence of the Secretary to the Ministry, was that the charges are 'baseless'
and that they reflect a fundamental misunderstanding of US "engagement" with
senior government officials.

At least Sison did not lie in relation to "misunderstandings" about their
methods: People from civilised cultures have trouble understanding such ignoble
behaviour which is par for the course for American agents operating from their
fortresses referred to as embassies.

Chandrika Kumaratunga and Ranil Wickremasinghe have a lot to answer for.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily News Sri Lanka. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             605 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

The Contours Of American History

BYLINE: John Moore

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 248 words


Williams shows how the American colonies in the middle of the 18th century had
the strength to achieve independence and to win a draw, if not victory, in the
1812 war that challenged Britain's monopoly of world trade. The Monroe Doctrine,
which came into being not long afterwards, became the manifesto of the US
empire.

The author sees the civil war as basically a drive by rising monopoly capitalism
in the north to extend into the plantation states in the south, with black
people as "units" in a market ruled by the laissez-faire system. Business
expansion into Canada and overseas advanced rapidly "to relieve business
distress" after the depression of the 1870s and was followed by armed
intervention in Brazil, the Philippines and Cuba to protect US commercial
interests. After a severe double-dip depression that lasted until 1898,
accompanied by violent riots, US capitalists saw that the era of huge profits
generated by development of the continental west was ended. Economic expansion
overseas was essential for prosperity, liberalism and the containment of class
tensions. This, Williams contends, was the central idea of the
frontier-expansion outlook. But while the frontier was opened by war expenditure
in two world wars, after that it was "limited by the challenge of a rigorous
anti-imperialism, socialism and communism armed with nuclear weapons."
Williams's powerful 500-page thesis has strongly influenced US historians. One
can understand why after reading this book.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             606 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           November 15, 2005, Tuesday

Europeans need a national identity

BYLINE: Fareed Zakaria

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 901 words


ONE week is a lifetime in the world of journalism these days. We've now been
through two cycles of commentary on the French riots. The first saw the troubles
as part of the broader clash of civilizations between Islam and the West.
"Falluja-Sur-Seine?" asked the neoconservative Weekly Standard. The columnist
Mark Steyn went further, drawing dark parallels to the Muslim conquest of Europe
in the eighth century.

But the riots had little to do with Islam. There were no green flags, no
crescent signs, no slogans about Palestine, no rhetoric about Islam. The young
men interviewed were irreligious and talked about respect, jobs and
discrimination, not jihad, suicide and virgins in paradise. The pictures looked
more like those of America's race riots in the 1960s than of Fallujah or
Ramallah.

The next wave of analysis focused on economics. France has a staggeringly high
unemployment rate in its ethnic ghettos, ranging from 15 to 30 percent. It has
produced only a few hundred thousand private-sector jobs over the past 25 years,
while the United States has generated almost 50 million. But if the chief cause
of trouble is unemployment, there are millions of unemployed Frenchmen who are
white and of European descent, and they are not rioting. France has a work
problem. The country has the shortest number of hours worked per capita in the
entire industrialized world.

The average Frenchman works 24 percent fewer hours than in 1970. The average
American, by contrast, works 20 percent more. Last year's best-seller "Bonjour
Paresse" ("Hello Laziness") is a satirical description of the dreary work
environment in French companies. ("Rule No. 5: Never accept a position of
responsibility for any reason. You'll only have to work harder for what amounts
to peanuts.") This cocktail of unemployment, underemployment and stagnation is
not an Arab problem, it's a French problem.

France's current crisis is in reality a combination of several factors,
including those listed above. But it is fundamentally a problem of national
identity. And this is not a peculiarly French problem. Western Europe today has
almost as many foreign-born citizens as does the United States. But its
countries don't think of themselves as immigrant nations. The centers of society
remain tightly knit, insular and largely homogenous.

Theory and practice diverge sharply. Europeans claim to have given up their old
national identities, but have they really? France speaks of a republic of
values, but scratch beneath the surface and it is a republic of cloistered
communities. Other European countries speak of post-religious, post-national
identities, but at heart they remain countries where identity is defined by
family, community and territory.

This is, after all, what so many of us find admirable about Europe. Its
communities are rooted in specific places - terroir. People don't move; they
give a place a sense of historical continuity. The ties to the land remain deep.
But these very traits - seen in those wonderful French movies about the
countryside - become deeply oppressive to outsiders struggling to find a place
at the table. A recent French study showed that job applicants with
"French-sounding names" had 50 times the chance of being interviewed as those
with Arab- or African-sounding names.

Solving this problem is a matter of survival for Europe. These "foreigners" are
citizens; they have to be integrated. In fact, for Europe to prosper it needs
more immigrants. Europe's economies are not quite as sclerotic as people
imagine. The biggest cause of its lower growth rate is a lack of immigration.
And things are only going to get worse. Put simply, Europe has too many retirees
and too few workers. The only real solution to this is some increased
immigration. But if immigration ineluctably causes social chaos, Europe is
doomed.

What is the solution? Is it a Frenchman's nightmare - Americanization? In some
ways, yes. France and other European countries need to move closer to a national
identity based on ideas and values. And they need to take active measures - like
affirmative action - to integrate their new minorities. Without affirmative
action (in schools, colleges, business, the armed forces), America would not
have the sizable black middle class that it does today, which is the most
effective balm to the problem of race relations.

One country has moved in that direction, with notable results. Britain has over
the past 20 years redefined its identity. In a remarkable discussion in Prospect
magazine last April, Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown explained his
definition of British identity: "A belief in tolerance and liberty, a sense of
civic duty, a sense of fair play, a sense of being open to the world." When
pushed as to whether these were really in any meaningful sense "British," Brown
persisted, saying, "[These are] the ideas that underpin our history. We were
talking about liberty and opportunity long before America was established. And
America is based on British ideas ... And if you look at British history, then
the fact that four nations eventually came together means that Britishness could
never be based on ethnic identity."

Britain has not solved this problem. But it is searching for a solution that
honors the past, embraces the present and prepares it for the future. One cannot
say as much for the rest of Europe.

Zakaria is editor of Newsweek International.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Charleston Newspapers


                             607 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            October 17, 2011 Monday

Narendra Modi's Sadbhavna Mission Muslims unmoved;
A DNA survey of 200 Muslims in state reveals they see the fast as a farce; 32.5%
say they will still not vote for Modi

BYLINE: Team DNA

LENGTH: 2075  words


A retired man from Jamalpur has questioned why Modi doesn't fast for important
matters like the price hike.

A businessman believes that the fast was an attempt to divert public attention
from the corruption charges levelled against the CM.

People from the walled city question why there hasn't been any development in
their part of the city.

A student was impressed with Modi at the end of the first day of the fast but
after the skullcap incident, his views changed. He now believes Modi is a
hypocrite.

The hall of the Gujarat University Convention Centre was teeming with long
beards and white skullcaps, but when just one of them was offered to him on
stage, it totally changed the game. Chief minister Narendra Modi's 55-hour
Sadbhavna fast may have succeeded in physically gathering a mass of Muslims at
the venue, but Modi's 'changed' image has failed to draw their trust.

In the days immediately following the fast, DNA decided to take a reality check
on the tall claims made by Modi's spin doctors about the fast being a roaring
success. The main objective of the fast was to project Modi as a secular leader.
We interviewed over 200 Muslims from different parts of the state to understand
what was their takeaway from the gala Sadbhavna event. The results, we must
admit, were surprising.

Contrary to the herds in which they moved at the fast venue, the thinking of
each individual, we gathered, was rather distinct and discerning. The survey
findings show that the fast was mostly perceived in negative light by Muslims.
They thought it was a political stunt and a waste of money. Even those who said
they would vote for him because of the development he had brought about in
Gujarat felt the fast was a huge farce. Many were put off by the fact that he
refused to wear the skullcap.

DNA ensured non-inclusion of opinions of riot victims or activists in the survey
to make sure that 'uncompromising' views do not skew the findings.

As Maulana Jamil Sabri, 41, puts it, "The three-day fast was a drama, hogwash,
with an eye on Muslim votes. The community understands this. Narendra Modi's
refusal to wear the Islamic skullcap only reinforced what we already knew. He
could have won a few Muslim hearts had he been genuine in his endeavour, but he
stood exposed. I won't vote for him."

A small percentage of those surveyed did believe Modi is a changed man and is
repenting his role in the 2002 riots.

Negative

Modi is a political leader of great influence and he has undoubtedly developed
the state. I don't blame him entirely for the riots but at the same time I can't
forgive him. The fact that a pharma company had to vacate the GU convention hall
for Modi's mission is unacceptable. Because of this, I will not vote for him the
next time around. -Ammar, 20, engineering student, Ahmedabad

If Modi was not responsible for the riots, then why has the US refused him visa
even after all these years? If Ajmal Kasab went on a fast, would he be pardoned?
I would never vote for Modi. Unfortunately, I haven't come across any politician
- Hindu or Muslim - who is a true and selfless humanitarian. -Rangrez Mohd Umar,
28, national judo athlete, Jamalpur, Ahmedabad

It was all fake. The reality is that BJP doesn't have a prime ministerial
candidate for the 2014 general elections as Advani is too old to carry the flag.
This fast was to project Modi as a national leader to put him in the hot seat.
His refusal to wear the skullcap proves that he has not changed. -Furquan Kagzi,
24, software engineer, Jamalpur, Ahmedabad

I don't think this (fast) is going to change his image, not at least for the
next 10 years. If he talks of development, Gujarat was always a developed state.
He has done nothing new. This is a big political stunt. I am not going to vote
for him for development as I know that he is not a secular leader. -Anonymous,
61, retired official, Baroda

Modi is an actor and all this fasting is for publicity and an image makeover
before next year's elections. In no Constitution is it written that a government
can spend crores for upvaas. I will not vote for him even if he makes Gujarat
very prosperous. I will not forget the 2002 riots ever. It was painful for us.
-Imran, 30, graphic designer, Ahmedabad

Where was Modi in the last 10 years? Why did he never invite any Muslim for
Iftaar parties as other CMs used to do? He is a hardcore saffron leader and can
never be accepted by Muslims. I don't think the fast will ever help to change
his image. For me such missions are of no use. I won't vote for Modi.
-Anonymous, 38, real estate agent, Juhapura, Ahmedabad

All Hindus fast during Shraavan, and all Muslims fast during Ramzan. So what's
the big deal when Modi fasts? I fast once every week. Should I call the media to
my place every week? Modi's fast is cover for a big political game. I have never
voted for Modi and never will. I will vote for Congress. -Aamir Saiyed, 34,
accountant, Shah Alam, Ahmedabad

It was a political stunt. Had he been serious, I would have bought a flat in a
posh locality. A day after his fast, I went to purchase a flat in an upcoming
area. The builder agreed but told me that an NOC is required to buy a flat in a
non-Muslim area. This is bad. I will not be voting for him. -Anonymous, 34,
sportsperson, Khokra, Ahmedabad

The fast was a drama and Modi just wants attention. He has spent a lot of money
for something that doesn't help anyone. None of the letters in the complaint box
were attended to. People were forced to attend the fast event. Very few Muslims
went voluntarily. I do not support him and will not vote for him. -Anonymous,
48,  homemaker, Ahmedabad

Ned to move on

Modi's fast is a part of the fast season. I believe when riots happened in 2002
it was because of lack of security at that point of time. Whatever happened is
forgotten. Modi as CM has done a commendable job by developing the state.
However I believe Gujarat needs inclusive growth. -Imroz Mansuri, 28,
independent investment consultant, Ahmedabad

Modi has shown a change of attitude and support towards Muslims but I think it
is just eyewash. There is no development in Muslim areas while other areas are
developing. It is evident from affidavits and statements of top IPS officers
that Modi has played an active role in 2002 riots. -Asif, businessman, Shah
Alam, Ahmedabad

Modi knows that if he has to become PM, he has to get Muslim support, which is a
deciding factors in many constituencies. Muslims will not forget the 2002 riots.
Instead of fasting, he should visit  Naroda Patiya, Gulbarg and other spots
where violence against Muslims occurred, to get their support. -Yusuf Hakim,
businessman and social worker, Juhapura, Ahmedabad

The Sadbhavna fast was organised with a political motive. I am not convinced
that Narendra Modi is genuine enough to include Muslims in his six crore
Gujaratis. He still needs to work hard to win over  them. I am still not clear
if I will vote for Modi in the coming elections. -Anonymous, 29, businessman,
Paldi, Ahmedabad

I think it's just a political stunt. He is not repentant. He always harps on
development but I don't see any development in my area. And let me clarify, the
Congress is no better. Even if they are in power we don't see any development.
They just use us as a vote bank. -Anonymous, 22, student, Mirzapur, Ahmedabad

The fast is a gimmick. If he were so concerned, he should have fasted in protest
of rising fuel price which in turn increase costs of food items. Bringing famous
people on one platform doesn't make you popular. I may not vote for him in next
year's elections. -Anonymous, 29, mechanic, Jamalpur, Ahmedabad

I don't really care about what Modi has done or what his plans are. Whosoever is
at the helm, I will have to work hard to earn my daily bread. I strongly feel
that such missions are not going to change anything. I don't think Modi's image
will ever change as an anti-Muslim leader. -Salim Shaikh, 52, laundry man,
Ahmedabad

The Sadbhavna Mission was a drama and Modi's sins will not be washed away by
such programmes. If he really wants to repent, he should go to Haridwar and take
a dip in the Ganges rather than doing such political stunts in Ahmedabad. -Usman
Qureshi, Juhapura, Ahmedabad

It looks like Modi is repenting for what he did during the Godhra riots. But
whatever good he has done in the past and whatever he is doing through Sadbhavna
Mission is not sufficient. But, he has brought about development. I am a
businessman. If there are steps that help my business, I may consider voting for
him but as of now I have not decided on the matter. -Munawarkhan Pathan, 56,
businessman, Rakhial, Ahmedabad

The Sadbhavna Mission was nothing but a political stunt. There was no
'Sadbhavna' involved in it. Modi was recently under pressure regarding the Zakia
issue and various corruption charges levelled against him. This hoopla
surrounding the fast diverted public attention from his wrongdoings. Voting is a
personal decision. I will see the situation next year and cast my vote
accordingly. -Taufiq Mansuri, 35, businessman, Ahmedabad

Positive

Whatever happened in 2002 was sad but I am happy the way things are moving (for
Gujarat) now. Modi has brought in a lot of development for the state and I will
vote for him. Fast is his way of dealing with people and wearing skullcap is
also his personal choice. I believe that Modi has been working for Muslims too.
-Anwar Hussain Chauhan, 36, legal manager, Baroda

CM's mission was a huge joke and nothing but a political drama. There was no
more to it than 'lights, camera, action'. However, I will vote for him, as I
don't see anybody else more qualified and capable enough to handle the state and
get as many opportunities as he has got for us. -Parvez Sheikh, 22, IT student,
Ahmedabad

He is coming up with new tricks everyday. It was good on his part that he fasted
for three days, but it would have been better if he had worn the cap offered by
the maulana. This would have given him a positive image. That said, he has done
a good job, I will vote for him since the state has progressed well under him.
-Vali Mansuri, 48, trader, Gandhinagar

Narendra Modi should be given a second chance. Though what he did in 2002 was a
huge mistake, I believe he should be allowed to be in power as he is an
inspiration for youngsters. As a leader he has done quite a lot of good for the
state. I will vote for him. -Anonymous, 21, KPO employee, Ahmedabad

Everyone wants to make it big in life and Modi is no different. He called on the
minorities to share the Sadbhavna stage. The fact that there have been no riots
since 2002 stands testimony to his change of attitude towards Muslims. I will be
voting for development. I want Modi to be our PM as he is capable of 'doing a
Gujarat' at the national level. -Saiyad Zakir, 35, graphic designer, Ahmedabad

Sadbhavna Mission was a publicity stunt. He (Modi) refused our religious
leader's cap and wore all others. This shows his bias. It seems he has changed
but some amount of discrimination still remains. I will still vote for BJP
because the party has worked for Ahmedabad's development. -Mohammad Jafar, store
hand, Rakhial, Ahmedabad

Modi is moving ahead taking everybody with him. His image has not and will never
change among riot victims but the other larger section of Muslims are happy with
the development. Even the anti-social elements from within our community are
scared of the law. I will definitely vote for Modi. -Shakil Shaikh, 40,
blacksmith, Ahmedabad

There seems to be some change in his thinking but he has no choice. It is clear
that he holds prime ministerial ambitions, so he had to shed his 'Hindutva'
image and talk of unity and brotherhood. Despite his misdeeds, I will still vote
for him as he has done a good job on the development front. -Anonymous, 52,
trader, Sundramnagar, Ahmedabad

The Supreme Court clean chit in the Godhra riots has done Modi a world of good.
The Sadbhavna Mission will go a long way to change the way Muslims perceive him.
There is no other option but to re-elect Modi, seeing the development he has
done in the state. Modi has achieved what Congress could not do in 40 years.
-Anwar Vora, 24, farmer, Panchmahals

I will definitely vote for Modi because it is because of him that Gujarat has a
lot of opportunities today. There are many industrial plants coming up which are
opening doors for all. That said, his fast was purely dramatical without any
essence. -Mohammad Tabrej, 26, graphic designer, Ahmedabad

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             608 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            March 30, 2013 Saturday

US lawmakers silent on 2002 communal riots;
US Congman Aaron Schock at a restaurant in the city on Friday

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 379  words


US lawmakers continued to go gaga over CM Narendra Modi on second and final day
of their visit to Gujarat, but chose to remain silent on 2002 riots and
widespread violation of human rights.

"Your chief minister is a great champion in attracting investments to Gujarat.
You should be proud of what you have to offer in terms of Gujarat as a state,"
said Aaron Schock, Republican Congressman from Illinois, in a meeting with
representatives of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry (GCCI).

Schock, 31, who is one of the youngest members of US Congress, also said that
Modi's work and achievements as chief minister are most impressive. Praising the
hospitality being extended to them, he added, "We feel at home here."

Congresswoman Cathy M Rodgers from Washington, who is also Chair of House
Republican Conference, said: "It had been very special to start our India Visit
from Gujarat. Your chief minister is someone who is humble, wise, a visionary
and more importantly, someone who can execute the visions, which is unique.
Here, we see a commitment to improve things."

The third Republican Congress member, Cynthia Lummis from Wyoming described Modi
as an exceptional gentleman. "Alongwith CM Modi, you have a vibrant region here.
We are aware of the wonderful work being done here," said Lummis. The lawmakers,
who met Modi on Thursday and invited him to US, reiterated that they would work
with US Administration for granting visa to him.

Despite hailing from a country that attaches a lot of significance to human
rights, US lawmakers surprisingly were silent over 2002 Gujarat riots and human
rights violations.

"Whatever happened 12 years ago was unfortunate. But I'm not aware of any
wrongdoing by the chief minister. The Supreme Court has cleared him. The people
have spoken by re-electing him," said Schock when asked if he had raised the
issue of the riots and human rights violation with Modi. "I cannot be judge and
jury in the case, which is why I didn't take up the issue with the chief
minister." The other two lawmakers chose to not comment in the matter.

The US delegation is visiting India till April 7. The delegation will leave for
Bangalore on Saturday. It will also visit Tirupati, New Delhi, Agra, Udaipur,
Jaipur and Amritsar during course of their visit.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             609 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                       MAY 23, 2003 Friday CITY-D EDITION

News in Brief

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 802 words


In the Nation

N.Y. judge won't quit over terrorist remark to woman

* A suburban New York judge asked a Lebanese American woman appearing in court
over parking tickets whether she was a terrorist, sparking demands for his
resignation. Judge William Crosbie in Tarrytown, N.Y., acknowledged in a
newspaper interview that he made the remark May 15, but the local Journal News
newspaper reported yesterday that he had rejected calls by the county's top
official and civil rights groups to resign.

Dean says he's raked in

$1 million, from the Net

* Democratic presidential contender Howard Dean has raised $1 million without
serving hors d'oeuvres, hitting the phones, or mailing thousands of appeals. The
money has come through the Internet. The former Vermont governor and
self-described underdog hit the $1 million mark in Internet fund-raising last
week. He is the first 2004 presidential candidate to announce he has done so.

Cincinnati to pay millions

in race-riot settlements

* Cincinnati officials approved a $4.5 million settlement of suits accusing
police of using excessive force during 2001 race riots. U.S. District Judge
Susan J. Dlott approved the settlement after City Council's vote to approve it
Wednesday. The unrest erupted in April 2001 after a white police officer shot
and killed Timothy Thomas, 19, a black man who was fleeing police on misdemeanor
charges. Rioters were angry over the deaths of Thomas and 14 other black men in
police encounters over six years. Officer Stephen Roach was acquitted in Thomas'
shooting.

Pakistani wins deal over Northwest Airlines incident

* Northwest Airlines has agreed to pay an undisclosed sum to a Pakistani man
from California who was kicked off a plane in Minneapolis on Dec. 25, 2001,
allegedly because of his "Middle Eastern appearance." The deal for Harris Khan,
28, a software manager from Monterey, was announced Wednesday.

New York Times panel will

review newsroom policies

* A committee of 20 New York Times staffers and outside news executives will
review the paper's newsroom policies following a plagiarism and fraud scandal.
The Times formed the panel Wednesday in response to the scandal involving Jayson
Blair, who resigned as a reporter May 1 after it was found that his work was
fraught with fraud, plagiarism and inaccuracies.

In the World

French teachers form chain

in second strike this week

* French teachers formed a human chain around the Education Ministry yesterday
in the second strike this week prompted by government plans to freeze spending,
alter the pension system, and give more power to local authorities. The Paris
protest marked the sixth teachers' strike since September and set the stage for
a nationwide demonstration on Sunday.

Brazil's endangered species nearly double in number

* The number of endangered animal species in Brazil, one of the world's wildlife
treasure troves, nearly doubled to 398 in a decade as natural habitats were
increasingly threatened, a study released yesterday showed. The types of
turtles, exotic frogs, rare parrots, and unusual tropical wolves in danger of
extinction jumped from 219 in 1989, when Brazil last carried out a comprehensive
study of its vast animal and plant life, extending to the Amazon jungle and the
huge Pantanal wetlands.

Indonesian troops fire

at rebels in Aceh, killing 5

* Indonesia's military fired warship guns at guerrilla positions in Aceh
province yesterday and vowed to increase land and air attacks, even as
international calls for peace in the rebellious province intensified. The
military said it had killed five rebels in ambushes, bringing to 27 the number
of separatists killed or captured in the last four days.

Japanese man, 70, reaches summit of Mount Everest

* A 70-year-old Japanese man scaled Mount Everest yesterday, becoming the oldest
person to climb the world's highest mountain, Nepal's Tourism Ministry said.
Yuichiro Miura, a professional skier and a high school headmaster from Sapporo,
reached the 29,035-foot summit using the Southeast Ridge route pioneered by Sir
Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay on May 29, 1953.

Prime minister's party wins

landslide in Barbados

* Prime Minister Owen S. Arthur's Barbados Labor Party won a landslide victory
in the Caribbean nation's general election, according to official results
released yesterday. The party won 23 of 30 parliamentary seats contested in
Wednesday's vote.

Artist arrested in Greece,

accused of terrorism ties

* Police in Athens, Greece, yesterday arrested a graphic artist accused of links
to the November 17 terrorist group, whose alleged leader and other suspected
members are now on trial. Kostas Avramidis, 42, was charged with involvement in
a terrorist group. His lawyer said Avramidis denied the charge.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
LOUIS LANZANO, Associated Press
Col. Richard Mills (left) of the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit returns an
American flag and a World Trade Center flag to Port Authority Police Chief
Joseph Morris. In the back are (from left) Gov. George E. Pataki and Sam
Plumeri, a Port Authority official. The Marines carried the trade center flags
during the war in Iraq.

                  Copyright 2003 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             610 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                          September 20, 2008 Saturday
                                National Edition

Obama-McCain debate to be held at university with tainted history

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 170  words


The first debate between Barack Obama and John McCain is scheduled to take place
at a school that barred blacks for more than a century and integrated only after
a bloody riot and U. S. Army intervention. Next Friday, the 160-year-old
University of Mississippi will host its first U. S. presidential debate. As the
first African-American presidential nominee from a major party, Mr. Obama will
refocus attention on the school where violence erupted in 1962 after James
Meredith, a black Air Force veteran, attempted to enroll. Four decades later,
Ole Miss is still struggling to overcome its history of segregation and
defiance. Students walk past monuments, to Meredith and the Confederate dead, on
their way to classes. The school boasts of its 14% African-American enrollment,
although officials and students say black parents are still leery of sending
their children there. "People stereotype us as racist, country bumpkins," said
Alex Klein, 18, a first-year student from Memphis, Tenn. "This will break
stereotypes."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2008 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             611 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                                National Edition

Burma warns of 'Chaos and Riots' if Aung San Suu Kyi leaves Rangoon

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: WORLD; World Report; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 124  words

DATELINE: Rangoon


Rangoon, Burma A possible tour of Burma by Aung San Suu Kyi could cause riots,
state media said Wednesday, implying she would be responsible for her safety.
The pro-democracy leader is planning her first trip outside Rangoon since she
was freed from home detention last year after elections to end army rule. "Her
followers and supporters . propagate that the government is responsible for
security of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi on her trip," a commentary in all three
official newspapers said. "We are deeply concerned that if [she] makes trips to
countryside regions, there may be chaos and riots." The U.S. State Department
said the government must ensure Ms. Suu Kyi is free to travel, express her views
and fully participate in the political process.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             612 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 24, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Canadians don't like to face uncomfortable truths

BYLINE: Andrew Cohen, Postmedia News

SECTION: ISSUES & IDEAS; Andrew Cohen; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 638  words


The most compelling image of the riot was the happy hooligan standing on a ledge
above the flames, throwing whatever he could on the fire below. With each item,
he raised his arms in triumph and acknowledged the cheers of the mob.

And cheer they did, when they themselves weren't torching cars, smashing store
windows and tossing naked mannequins on the flames. Or dancing like Druids at
Equinox.

In his post-apocalyptic rhapsody, our hooligan was auditioning as Girolamo
Savonarola, the celebrated pyromaniac. In 15th-century Florence, an outraged
Savonarola ordered the public burning of books, mirrors, playing cards and pagan
images that he deemed godless and sinful.

Long before author Tom Wolfe made famous the follies of Wall Street, these were
the Bonfires of the Vanities. Curiously, the Bonfires of Vancouver were about
vanity, too.

Not content to punch, pillage and burn, our vandals wanted to record their bad
behaviour. So they took pictures of themselves on their cellphones. Their words
and images filled cyberspace, where everyone could share their orgy of
destruction on Facebook.

They just couldn't help themselves. They had to boast. It felt so good to smash
things up. But if they were about vanity, their city was about complacency.
Vancouverites were so pleased with themselves after their successful Olympics
that something sordid like this was unthinkable to them.

The afternoon of the seventh game, I asked a police officer if he expected
trouble that night. "It will be a party," he said. And if the Canucks lose? "It
will be a party," he replied. With naiveté like this, who needs police?

The depth of the city's denial revealed itself when the mayor was quick to blame
the riot on anarchists, and when observers used words like "entropy" and
"nihilism." It wasn't hometown fans, they said, it was outside agitators.

Now we know that wasn't entirely so. Among the professional mischiefmakers were
normal, middle-class kids wearing expensive hockey sweaters with names on the
back. Real rioters don't wear embroidered hockey sweaters, except, perhaps, in
Canada. It begs the question: Was this riot in Lotus Land a statement on us as a
people?

Actually, along with the United States, Britain and Scandinavia, we are among
the world's oldest functioning democracies. Our political institutions are much
the same as they were in 1867.

Because we are relatively old among the world's nations, we should know better
than to proclaim that we are the greatest. Praising yourself is like wearing
designer labels to trumpet your wealth. If you're really secure about yourself,
you don't have to announce it. Canadians like to dismiss American
exceptionalism, the idea that the United States is a blessed republic that sees
a mission for itself in the world. In Canada, our exceptionalism isn't a mission
as much as a mantra.

It's true that we have a history of civil order and good government, that we
have never had colonies and never fought wars of conquest, and that we welcome
immigrants without the nativism that thrives in Europe. At the same time, we
continue to think ourselves civilized as we venerate a violent, punishing game
and shout each other down in Parliament. Or, as we tolerate homelessness and
child poverty and we build new prisons.

We are an unexamined people, we Canadians, with little instinct for
selfcriticism. We are content to pump oil, mine gold, fall trees, catch fish,
grow grain and let it all make us rich and fat.

The problems that send protesters into the streets in other places -the state of
democracy, foreign wars or domestic strikes -don't faze us here. Hell, they
don't even make us vote.

No, there is little that troubles us today in our fair Canada, where we have
vanity and complacency to burn.

Andrew Cohen is a professor of journalism and international affairs at Carleton
University.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             613 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

TODAY'S TWEET

SECTION: MAI; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 58  words


If a picture is worth a thousand words, this image from a protest in Los Angeles
speaks volumes about the public reaction to the shooting of 18-year-old Michael
Brown, an unarmed black man, by police in Ferguson, Missouri, on August 9. It
sparked the worst race riots the US has seen in years.

#MichaelBrown #Ferguson #HandsUpDontShoot   @DaveSFoley

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2014 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             614 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              April 7, 2014 Monday
                                 First Edition

India's democracy is healthy but body politic is under strain

SECTION: OPINION; Leaders; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 731 words


The world's biggest ballot is about to take place in India. Like every general
election held there, it will be a logistical marvel. About 814 million voters
are eligible to participate - that's 100 million more than India's general
election in 2009 and roughly four times the voting-age population of the US. The
vast poll will be held in nine phases over a five-week period which begins on
Monday. About 11 million polling officials and security personnel will staff
930,000 voting stations during the election period.

It's easy to take India's vibrant democracy for granted. Its distinctive
Westminster-style political system has become deeply entrenched since the nation
gained independence in 1947. Elections have been largely free and fair and India
has lively free media and a well-established legal system. In an era when
China's economic achievements have challenged the global ascendancy of political
systems born in the West, India's success has become crucial to the democratic
cause. Sadly, challenges like corruption and poverty often overshadow India's
robust democratic tradition.

The results of Indian elections are of growing importance for Australia. Over
the past decade India has emerged as one of Australia's biggest export markets
and a growing source of foreign investment, especially in the mining sector.
Political ties between the two countries have improved markedly since the late
1990s. The election is a reminder of the many things India and Australia have in
common.

India's governing coalition, led by the Congress party, is seeking a third,
five-year term in office but it may be hampered by incumbency and a slew of
damaging corruption scandals. If opinion polls are any guide, the Hindu
nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, or BJP, is poised to snare more seats than
any other party although it is likely to need support from one or more regional
parties to form a government. No Indian political party has won a national
election in its own right since 1984 but if the BJP is able to cobble together a
coalition, the party's controversial leader, Narendra Modi, will become India's
15th prime minister. Mr Modi, who has been chief minister of Gujarat, one of
India's most successful states, since 2001, has a reputation for running a
relatively efficient, corruption-free administration and Gujarat's economy has
been growing steadily. But Mr Modi has been a divisive figure since presiding
over communal riots in Gujarat when more than 1000 people, mostly Muslims, were
killed. He has been accused of doing little to stop the riots although he denies
these allegations. He became an international pariah after the riots - the US
denied him visas and Britain cut off all ties with him. Despite this baggage, Mr
Modi, a gifted orator, has gradually been reintegrated ito India's political
mainstream. He has drawn big crowds to election rallies and is popular with many
India business leaders who credit him with facilitating Gujarat's economic
success. But should he win he must show he can govern for all Indians.

Whoever wins the election will face big economic challenges. When Indians last
went to the polls in 2009, the economy was motoring along at 8 per cent growth.
But economic momentum has slowed alarmingly amid weakening investment, high
inflation and a growing budget deficit. This slowdown has drawn attention to a
deeper problem: policy paralysis. Two decades have passed since India announced
free-market reforms that gradually opened up the economy and paved the way for
rapid economic expansion during the past decade. While those reforms were far
reaching, important markets including those for land and labour were left almost
utouched. The need for further reforms is urgent but the political momentum for
change has stalled.

Compounding the economic challenge is the fact that tens of millions of voters
have largely missed out on the benefits from the higher growth rates. Though
Indian leaders talk a lot about the importance of "inclusive growth", it has
proved difficult to achieve.

Once India's festival of democracy is over, the victor will have to find ways to
enact economic reforms and restore the confidence of both foreign and domestic
investors. With India's population growing by about 20 million a year, high
growth rates are essential if the country is to provide employment for its
increasingly aspirational population.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             615 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          November 19, 2014 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Protesters shadow the visits of Chinese and Indian leaders

BYLINE: Matt Wade, John Garnaut

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 376 words


While Narendra Modi and Xi Jinping have been feted in the halls of Australian
power, the placards that line the streets they travel tell a different story.

President Xi's position as General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party
means he has been in charge of the deepest and most unrelenting civil society
crackdown in decades.

Mr Xi's two-year tenure has coincided with hundreds of deaths in Xinjiang
province, involving both terrorist attacks and police reprisals, dozens of
self-immolations in Tibet and an unprecedented rebellion of students in Hong
Kong.

His security forces have jailed and intimidated dozens of prominent lawyers,
journalists and online commentators who were previously left alone, while the
space for debate has been significantly constricted.

And the adulation afforded to Mr Modi in Australia reflects a stunning
turnaround. In 2002, when Mr Modi was chief minister of India's Gujarat state,
deadly riots cast a dark shadow over his reputation. More than a 1000 people,
mostly Muslims, were killed in the pogrom which lasted several days. Mr Modi has
been accused of doing little to stop the bloodshed although he denies the
allegations and none of them have ever been proven. He became an international
pariah after the riots - the US denied him visas for many years and Britain cut
off all ties with him.

Mr Modi has gradually been reintegrated into India's political mainstream and
the landslide election victory for the BJP suggests millions of Indians are
willing to overlook his political baggage.

Mr Xi's crackdowns are ongoing, as suggested by the gruesome stories and
striking placards of some of the Tibetan and Falun Gong protesters who have been
shadowing his movements.

And Mr Modi's links with hardline Hindu groups, especially the Rashtriya
Swayamsevak Sangh or RSS, continue to worry many from religious minorities in
India.

There was a clear reminder of this when about 300 members of Sydney's Sikh
community staged a protest outside Allphones Arena where Mr Modi spoke on
Monday.

Karandeep Singh Chadha, a spokesman for the protesters, says many people from
religious minorities in India do not feel safe and that groups associated with
Mr Modi have an agenda "to make India a Hindu nation" by wiping out other
religions.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             616 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Three dead as rampages sweep across England;
London tense but calm as clean-up starts

BYLINE: JULIA MAY LONDON With BLOOMBERG

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 674 words


THE unrest in Britain turned fatal yesterday as rioting swept north from London,
triggering extraordinary scenes of violence in Manchester, Liverpool, and the
Midlands. London was tense but relatively calm as the presence of 16,000 police
officers, some drafted in from Wales, and local vigilantes prevented a repeat of
the fiery chaos of Monday night. In Birmingham a man was arrested on suspicion
of murder after three Asian men were knocked down and killed, reportedly while
trying to protect their community from looters. Riot police were deployed to
Birmingham City Hospital as about 200 relatives congregated there.

One witness told the BBC: "A car came flying, took out three of the guys. They
flew into mid-air. The car went up on to the kerb and then it was gone. Six to
seven seconds and it was all over and three of my boys haven't survived in
hospital." In Manchester, a shopping centre was evacuated on Tuesday afternoon
as rioters rampaged through the city centre, smashing shopfronts, stealing goods
and setting buildings on fire. The Bishop of Manchester, Nigel McCulloch,
deplored the violence, which extended to Salford, but said the areas were
quickly getting back to normal. He called for those who had suffered to be
"cared for and compensated". As in London on Tuesday, civilian clean-up teams
quickly organised. Greater Manchester Assistant Chief Constable Garry Shewan
said: "This has been senseless violence and senseless criminality of a scale
that I have never experienced in my career." In Liverpool, police arrested more
than 50 people over violence that started when looters tried to break into a
cash machine using a mechanical digger. Four fire engines were put out of
service after being attacked by gangs. In Nottingham, a police station was
fire-bombed, and in Gloucester about 60 people took part in disturbances
described as unco-ordinated copycat acts. On Tuesday, Prime Minister David
Cameron left open the possibility that police would use water cannon or rubber
bullets, but these means were not deployed. Police said 768 people had been
arrested since the violence began on Saturday. Metropolitan Police Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Steve Kavanagh defended the force for relying on
traditional measures and said police numbers in London would be maintained for
as long as necessary. He also warned against vigilantism after groups of men,
many of them drunk, took to the streets of north London to ward off rioters. One
man told the BBC: "We're the Enfield anti-rioting squad. You want to riot us,
we'll riot you. We're here to smash you up." In other areas of London, groups
organised into patrols, often along ethnic lines. In Hackney, Turkish and
Kurdish men gathered to stand up against looters, and in Southall, a group of
Sikh men gathered to protect their temple and the community. Mayor of London
Boris Johnson (pictured) called on the government to reconsider plans to cut
police numbers. His intervention came a day after he was heckled by shopkeepers
in south London for waiting three days before returning from his holiday. "This
is not a time to think about making substantial cuts in police numbers," he said
in a BBC radio interview. "I think it would be a good thing if the government
had another look" at the cuts, the case for which "was always pretty frail". MPs
were much more visible yesterday, with government ministers rejecting claims
spending cuts were to blame for the strife. Labour leader Ed Miliband put the
emphasis on bad parenting rather than the economic situation: "We need to look
at the underlying causes for the violence. The causes are not simple; they're
complex." A second meeting of the government's Cobra emergency committee was to
be held yesterday, and MPs were to return to Parliament for one day today. After
Mr Cameron addresses MPs, Chancellor George Osborne will comment on the economic
impact of the riots. The Bank of England last night revised down its
expectations of annual economic growth from the 2.5 per cent forecast in May to
just 1.4 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: World turned upside down: burnt and upended cars in the
aftermath of rioting and arson in Salford, Manchester. PICTURES: AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             617 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 17, 2005

Rampage in protest at 'Nazi' march

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 188 words


RIOTERS burned buildings, looted shops and bars, and attacked police in protest
at a planned march by neo-Nazi white supremacists.

A state of emergency was declared in Toledo, Ohio and mayor Jack Ford ordered a
curfew as a crowd of 600, mostly black teenage gang members, rampaged through
the streets.

They hurled broken paving slabs and bottles at police, and broke into shops and
bars by shooting away the locks.

Police, who sent 400 reinforcements to the area, fought back with tear gas and
wooden bullets, making 63 arrests.

Meanwhile, in Washington, a crowd of more than 100,000 black people heard
militant Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan attack President George Bush's
slow response when Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans.

Hundreds who gathered for the 10th anniversary of the Million Man March carried
signs critical of Mr Bush's Iraq policy saying, 'Bush Lied, People Died'.

Speaking about New Orleans, Mr Farrakhan said: ' We charge America with criminal
neglect. If the people had blond hair and blue eyes and pale skin, something
would have been done in a more timely manner.'

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


                             618 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

USPTO grants trade mark "BIKINI RIOT" to Revello Media LLC LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANY

LENGTH: 41  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Revello Media LLC LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, has been granted trademark
(4289073) titled as "BIKINI RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark
Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 025. US 022 039. G & S: Bikinis. FIRST USE: 20120629.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             619 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 19, 2013 Tuesday

USPTO grants trade mark "BIKINI RIOT" to Revello Media LLC LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANY

LENGTH: 67  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Revello Media LLC LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY, has been granted trademark
(4289081) titled as "BIKINI RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark
Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 035. US 100 101 102. G & S: On-line retail store services featuring
bikinis, swimwear, underwear, lingerie, beach coverups, clothing, namely,
t-shirts, shorts, dresses, skirts and tops. FIRST USE: 20120629.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             620 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 2, 2013 Friday

USPTO grants trade mark "RETIREMENT RIOT" to Cloke, Curtis V. (INDIVIDUAL)
(IOWA)

LENGTH: 45  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Cloke, Curtis V. (INDIVIDUAL) (IOWA), has been granted trademark (4376371)
titled as "RETIREMENT RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 036. US 100 101 102. G & S: Financial planning consultation. FIRST
USE: 20120608.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             621 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                   Mail Today

                            December 27, 2013 Friday

INDIASETS TAXMEN LOOSE ON U . S . EMBASSY

BYLINE: By Saurabh Shukla in New Delhi

LENGTH: 2794  words


Tough talking Delhi denies diplomatic privileges to Ambassador Powell

EXCLUSIVE

AFTER the nuclear tests in 1998, the US put severe sanctions against India. In a
role reversal, it's the American embassy in New Delhi feeling the pinch of "
sanctions" imposed by the Indian foreign ministry, including an impending visit
by the taxman. The foreign ministry has asked the Central Board of Direct Taxes
to make an unprecedented

scrutiny of tax returns, salaries and employment details of embassy employees,
as well as exemptions claimed by establishments allied to the mission.

M AIL T ODAY has also learnt that US ambassador Nancy Powell had to cancel a
scheduled trip to Nepal after the foreign ministry refused to extend her special
privileges that usually come with the job. Powell had notified the foreign
ministry about her trip and asked for the use of the protocol lounge and other
privileges like security and immigration assistance, but she was curtly reminded
that all of these had been withdrawn as retaliatory measure to protest the
treatment of Khobragade. The US Embassy did not reply to M AIL T ODAY 's email
for a response on this issue.

To make its displeasure even clearer, US deputy chief of mission Michael
Pelletier was summoned on Christmas eve - a time when most Americans would be
having a traditional turkey dinner with the family - and served a demarche or
diplomatic protest by Vikram Doraisamy, the head the Americas desk at the
external affairs ministry. This was yet another note to protest the
unsatisfactory US response India's request for dropping charges against
Khobragade and signal that Washington needed to speed up her diplomatic identity
card in New York.

The US also has to change her visa status now that she is accredited to India's
mission the UN.

New territory But, such is the anger in South Block over the treatment of
Khobragade that ministry mandarins are going where they have never gone before.
The foreign ministry has now set the taxman loose against the American mission
and its employees.

The foreign office has asked the Central Board of Direct Taxes ( CBDT) to send a
tax notice to the US Embassy seeking details of the tax returns, taxes paid and
employment details of all the family members and local staffers at the embassy
and its consulates in India.

Sources say the department will also do a 360 degree mapping of the diplomats
and their families with a finetoothed comb now, something which has never been
done for diplomats. " The US has been claiming tax exemption for the American
School and its staffers. They also run a club inside the US Embassy premises as
well as a beauty salon and a cafe. We need to know why this should be exempted
from paying taxes," a source told M AIL T ODAY . New Delhi also turned down the
US's assertion that it needs prior permission from Washington before submitting
such details, telling the US that they need to act fast.

Two- pronged examine details

While India keeps up the heat on Washington, it is also strengthening its legal
case.

Sources say that the US goofed up yet another point, as Devyani was covered
under the Vienna Convention on diplomatic immunity of 1946 even on the day she
was arrested.

Khobragade was accredited to the UN and was accorded adviser status by the US
State Department, which was recognised by its Office of Foreign Missions, till
December 31. The adviser status is provided to all the officials part of the
official delegation to the UN. In this case, Devyani was assigned certain
official duties during Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's visit to the US for the
UN General Assembly session in September 2013.

" So the question of her arrest did not arise as she enjoyed diplomatic immunity
even then, " a source explained.

The Indian foreign mapped includes diplomats' without Close scrutiny diplomatic
status those working Information Service American Centre and  Chief Christmas
harsh the on  information records legal

foreign ministry has also mapped out a Plan B, which includes stopping the
working of diplomats' spouses and relatives without requisite permits.

There is also likely to be close scrutiny of the diplomatic status of those
working in United States Information Service and American Centre in the country.

DIPLOMATIC HEAT STROKE

At the time of her arrest, Devyani enjoyed adviser status, and consequently,
diplomatic immunity

US Ambassador Nancy Powell forced to cancel a visit to Nepal; MEA told the US
Embassy there would be no special privileges for the envoy at the airport
Taxmen let loose on the US. Central Board of Direct Taxes will send a notice to
examine salaries and other details of US diplomats and family members  Summoning
Deputy Chief of US Mission on Christmas Eve sent a harsh message - that the US
needs to act fast on Devyani case  India has dug out information from UN records
& strengthened legal case for Devyan

Big Brother US spreads its wings in Indian skies

THE recent arrest of Devyani Khobragade and its attendant circumstances have
again brought into sharp focus the debate over whether the US is increasingly
exercising jurisdiction in matters which pertain to India, and over which
jurisdiction belongs to India alone. A highly provocative and controversial
aspect of such extra-territorial outreach is being done through the Alien Tort
Statute (ATS) which reads: "The District Courts shall have original jurisdiction
of any civil action by an alien for a tort only, committed in violation of the
law of nations or a treaty of the United States." In recent years, US courts
have interpreted this statute to allow foreign citizens to seek remedies in US
courts for human rights violations allegedly committed outside the US. Courts
have found such violations to be actionable under the ATS. As far as India is
concerned, US courts have issued summons to Indian leaders including Sonia
Gandhi, Manmohan Singh, Parkash Singh Badal and Kamal Nath. Summons have also
been issued to the Indian National Congress. All these have been done on the
basis of suits filed against them by an organisation calling itself Sikhs For
Justice (SFJ). Many analysts believe that the SFJ receives funding from certain
agencies and is their proxy.

FRINGE OUTFIT SUES CONGRESS IN NY COURT April 2010, the SFJ filed a suit the US
Court of Southern District of New York against the Indian National Congress for
its commit The dismiss proper the court evidence service

EXCLUSIVE

role in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. It accused the Congress of genocide, torture,
summary executions and extra-judicial killings as well as aiding and abetting
commission and conspiracy to commit human rights violations. The Congress filed
a motion to dismiss the case for lack of proper service of summons, but the
motion was denied. The court held that the plaintiff's evidence establishes that
the service was effected properly in

accordance with the Hague Convention procedures. The matter is still in court.

NO IMMUNITY FOR MINISTER NATH Again, in April 2010 itself, the Southern District
Court of New York issued summons to senior Congress leader Kamal Nath following
a civil suit filed by the SFJ accusing him of human rights violations in the
1984 riots. The US State Department refused to give him diplomatic immunity,
even though he was a Cabinet minister. The case was dismissed as the judge ruled
that the plaintiff had not been able to serve the summons to him in an
appropriate manner. Thereafter, the SFJ filed a motion to re-instate the case.

A CASE FILED AGAINST PUNJAB CHIEF MINISTER In August 2012, a US District Court
in Wisconsin issued summons to Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal and
asked him to reply to a suit filed by the SFJ accusing him of overseeing human
rights violations and torture in his

the case to the District Court to establish that alternative service of summons
to Badal had been accomplished through the Hague Convention.

SERVED SUMMONS ON MEDICAL VISITTO US

On September 4, 2013, the US Court of the Eastern District of New York issued
summons to Congress president Sonia Gandhi after the SFJ and two persons
claiming to be victims of the 1984 riots filed a complaint before it, accusing
her of shielding and protecting leaders of the Congress who were allegedly
involved in the riots. At that time, she was on a medical visit to the US, and
her attorneys asserted that the summons had not been properly served on her. The
SFJ claimed the the summons had been delivered through hospital staff and her
security detail. The case was heard in the US court on October 24, 2013. Sonia's
counsel argued that the complaint was not sustainable as the court did not have
jurisdiction over her. On the other hand, the SFJ asked for a certificate of
default. The judge did not allow their request for this certificate of default,
but gave them four weeks to file an amended

complaint. In a recent hearing on December 16, the court gave Sonia time till
January 2, 2014 to respond to the charges against her.

A CASE FILED AGAINST PRIME MINISTER AS WELL!

Barely 20 days after securing the summons against Mrs Sonia Gandhi, the SFJ
secured summons from a federal court in Washington DC against Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh for his alleged role in sanctioning big cash rewards for Punjab
policemen involved in the 1984 anti-Sikh operations in the early 90s as well as
for protecting those involved in the riots. The plaintiff wanted to serve the
summons to him during his visit to Washington DC but was not able to do so,
claiming that this was on account of his high security detail. They announced
that they would serve the summons through the Hague Convention on the service
abroad of judicial and extra-judicial documents.

INDIAfS SOVEREIGNTY CHALLENGED

All the above facts illustrate how courts in the US have been issuing summons to
Indian leaders disregarding the fact that the alleged human rights violations
did not occur on its territory. Some of these cases are still being heard in US
courts. Should US courts exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction over Indian
leaders in this manner? Apart from the obvious damage to Indian leaders through
such unfriendly acts, it is an infringement of Indiafs sovereignty and a
trespass on the jurisdiction of our courts. What would the US say if courts in
other countries were to issue summons to US leaders by admitting lawsuits
alleging human rights violations by them? Could a court in India or some other
country issue summons to Colin Powell for misleading the world in regard to
weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and thus causing massive human rights
violations? Can suits be filed in courts of other countries regarding human
rights violations by US authorities in Guantanamo Bay? The US would be
completely dismissive of anything of this sort. All political parties have shown
remarkable unanimity in condemning Devyani Khobragadefs humiliating arrest and
detention. It is time they also put up a united front in regard to how the Alien
Tort Statute is being used against Indian leaders. We have to rise above
partisanship and address this issue. THE US AND IBDA The recent cases arising
from the insistence of the US State Department to apply its labour laws to India
Based Domestic Assistants (IBDA) also reflect this trend of the US exercising
its jurisdiction in matters that should rightly be outside it. India has been at
pains to explain to the US that Indian laws apply to an IBDA, as such a person
is on official duty of the Government of India. The IBDA is given an official
passport not available to ordinary citizens, and the visa is applied through an
official note verbale of the external affairs ministry. The to-and-fro air
passages as well as home leave passages are paid for by the Indian government.
Accommodation is provided to the IBDA on premises either owned or rented by
India, and full board and medical cover is provided through the officer whom the
IBDA has accompanied. As regards the salary, this is given by the Indian
government through the officer as it is included in the officerfs own
emoluments. The IBDA system has evolved well over decades. Domestic assistants
have accompanied Indian diplomats through successive postings as they save their
entire salary while enjoying a decent and comfortable stay abroad on official
government duty.

My IBDA, Mrs Bhardwaj, was with me for two years in India and four years in
Morocco during which time she was perfectly happy; she went voluntarily as my
IBDA to New York.

Should the US government insist on applying its wage laws to the IBDA? The IBDA
is unlike a private domestic worker who can be hired locally. Such a worker may
earn wages of $10 (approx. `620) an hour but has to pay for accommodation, food,
medical coverage and travel expenses, while the Indian government pays for all
these in the case of the IBDA. The US allowed deductions for these earlier but
not any longer. The website of the US State Department states that as of March
2011, deductions for accommodation, travel and medical insurance will not be
allowed, and that from April 2012, deductions for food will not be allowed
either.

Surely, this is an unfair position, as the Indian government has the sovereign
right to determine the emoluments and perks of persons who hold Indian official
passports. The IBDA is a service staff member

member of the Embassy or Consulate, just like chauffeurs and security guards
sent from India on official duty to embassies and consulates. Clearly, the US is
making it virtually impossible for India to continue with the IBDA practice.

Is this in response to the domestic workerfs unions? It is indeed true that
slaves were earlier brought to the US in hordes and did all sorts of work,
including domestic chores and were paid nothing in return. But does it follow by
way of logic that a domestic assistant sent by the government of India on
official duty with all expenses paid and saving a tidy sum by Indian standards
is being subjected to slavery? Doesnft the position now taken by the State
Department, disallowing deductions completely, ignore the fact that
accommodation, food, medical cover, travel expenses, etc cost a pretty tidy sum,
especially in costly cities in the US? Or is it due to the fact that, as Afghan
President Hamid Karzai hinted in a recent interview with eminent journalist
Saurabh Shukla, the US tends to act as a big bully? At the very least, it is
tantamount to dictating to the Indian government what it should pay to a certain
category of its officials posted to the US.

India should draw the attention of the State Department to Article 47 of the
Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR) which provides that consular
officers and their private staff are exempted from the requirement of work
permits imposed by the laws and regulations of the receiving state regarding
foreign labour. Clearly, the idea behind this exemption is that domestic
assistants of consular officers should be treated differently as compared to
other foreign labour, and local labour laws should not apply to them.

POLITICAL DISCUSSION COULD END IMPASSE

The task before the external affairs ministry of India is to engage in a
discussion with the US State Department so that the IBDA is treated as someone
on official duty, and hence governed by Indian and not US laws. This would need
an intervention at the political level, and not merely at the official level. In
fact, this should have been done when the very first case occurred relating to
the IBDA of Dr Neena Malhotra.

The US side is expected to be adamant and unsympathetic, and we should be
prepared for a long haul.

Some quarters in the ministry of external affairs feel that it is time for India
to insist that there should be reciprocity in this matter, and that US diplomats
in India should pay the same wages to their domestic staff as Indian diplomats
are expected to pay in the US.

After all, the US Embassy and Consulates as well as homes of its diplomats and
Consular officials are US territory, and the US minimum wage should be payable
to persons who work there.

Contracts to this effect could be insisted upon when permitting domestic workers
to be engaged, and engaging such workers without submitting the contracts could
be prohibited. I am afraid that this matter of the IBDA might again be put on
the backburner once a solution is found to the immediate problem relating to
Devyani Khobragade.

It will be back to business as usual, delegations will start winging their way
to trans-Atlantic destinations and we will again be jolted by the seriousness of
this problem when another IBDA absconds and alleges slavery and human rights
violations.

(The writer is a retired diplomat) (As told to Jugal R. Purohit)

Could a court in India issue summons to Colin Powell for misleading the world in
regard to WMDs in Iraq?

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Mail Today, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             623 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday

Hillary re-exposed

BYLINE: Half-page Books

LENGTH: 1639 words


Veteran journalist Ed Klein caught a lot of mainstream media grief last summer
when he unleashed "The Truth About Hillary," his blunt and deliberately
one-sided trashing of the politics and personality of Hillary Clinton. Despite
the bad press it got from the liberal media -- including 13 stories on Klein in
The New York Times -- the book sold more than 250,000 copies. Klein says he
wasn't sued by anyone and stands by everything he wrote. Now out in paperback,
the book contains a new introduction that explains how conservative talk shows,
bloggers and places like Newsmax.com made him a best-seller.

Q: What have you learned about Hillary Clinton since your book came out?

A: That she remains consistent and has been consistent since she was 8 years
old. She developed a grandiose idea of her own self-importance and has never
been shaken in that conviction throughout her years in politics.

Q: What have you learned about the mainstream media since your book came out?

A: The mainstream media, in the year since my hardcover edition came out, have
fallen slightly out of love with Hillary because of her backing of the war in
Iraq. And the vehemence with which they once supported her is no longer as
evident. It would be no exaggeration to say that the mainstream media and the
base of the Democratic Party are now actively looking for another candidate to
back in 2008.

Q: What have you learned about conservatives in the last year that has not
pleased you?

A: There are some conservatives who appear to be conservatives in name only and
are more interested in sipping Chablis with their liberal friends at New York
cocktail parties and out in South Hampton and East Hampton than they are in the
conservative cause. Among those who I would call Chablis conservatives are
people like John Podhoretz of the New York Post and Peggy Noonan, who are more
concerned with how they are treated by their liberal friends than they are with
their adherence to conservative principles.

Q: When we talked last year, you said Hillary's whole life was a sham and she
couldn't be trusted with the presidency. Do you regret or retract anything that
you wrote?

A: Quite the contrary. I not only stand by what I wrote, but I'm very glad that
I wrote it because it had to be said. I think a lot of what I wrote about
Hillary -- that she is untrustworthy, that she is a liar, that she is a sham,
all of those things for which I was attacked by so many people -- have now
become clearer to everyone, even to some people left of center. ... Her posing
as a God-fearing moderate who is against flag burning and in favor of Mom and
apple pie doesn't fool many people any longer.

Q: Your next book is going to be about Katie Couric. Is there anything you can
tell us about that?

A: I can only say that whereas my book on Hillary was intended to be a polemic
against Hillary because I did not and do not want to see her become president of
the United States, the book on Katie Couric is going to be much more of a
journalistic, fair-and-balanced enterprise.

Ann Coulter: Quick Quotes

We asked Ann Coulter this week to personally select a paragraph or two from her
best-selling book "Godless" that she wished her critics had concentrated on
instead of harping about what she said about the "Jersey Girls," the anti-war
widows of 9/11. Here' are the ones she e-mailed to us:

Our book is Genesis. Their book is Rachel Carson's "Silent Spring," the original
environmental hoax. Carson brainwashed an entire generation into imagining a
world without birds, killed by DDT. Nazi concentration camp victims were bathed
in DDT when they were rescued to save their lives. But because of liberals'
druidical religious beliefs, they won't allow us to save Africans dying in
droves of malaria with DDT because DDT might hurt the birds. A few years after
oil drilling began in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, a saboteur set off an explosion
blowing a hole in the pipeline and releasing an estimated 550,000 gallons of
oil. It was one of the most devastating environmental disasters in recent
history. Six weeks later, all the birds were back. Birds are like rats -- you
couldn't get rid of them if you tried.

Liberalism is a comprehensive belief system denying the Christian belief in
man's immortal soul. Their religion holds that there is nothing sacred about
human consciousness. It's just an accident no more significant than our
possession of opposable thumbs. They deny what we know about ourselves, that we
are moral beings in God's image. Without this fundamental understanding of man's
place in the world, we risk being lured into misguided pursuits including
bestiality, slavery, and PETA membership. Liberals swoon in pagan admiration of
Mother Earth, mystified and overawed by her power. They deny the Biblical idea
of dominion and progress, the most ringing affirmation of which is the United
States of America.

Although they are Druids, liberals masquerade as rationalists, adopting a
sneering tone of scientific sophistication, which is a little like being
condescended to by a Tarot card reader. Liberals hate science and react badly to
it. They will literally run from the room, light-headed and nauseated, when told
of data that might suggest that the sexes have different abilities in math and
science. They repudiate science when it contradicts their pagan beliefs -- that
the AIDS virus doesn't discriminate, that there is no such a thing as I.Q., that
nuclear power is dangerous and scary, or that breast implants cause disease.
Liberals use the word "science" exactly like they use the word "constitutional."
Both words are nothing more or less than a general statement of liberal
approval, having nothing to do with either science or the constitution. (Thus
for example, the following sentence makes sense to liberals: President Clinton
saved the Constitution by repeatedly ejaculating on a fat Jewish girl in the
Oval Office.)

Everything liberals believe is in elegant opposition to basic Biblical precepts.

Our religion says that human progress proceeds from the spark of divinity in the
human soul; Their religion holds that human progress is achieved through sex and
death.

We believe in invention and creation; they catalogue with stupefaction the
current state of our diminishing resources and tell us to stop consuming.

We say humans stand apart from the world and our charge is planet earth; They
say we are part of the world, and our hubristic use of nature is sinful.

We say humans are in God's image; They say we are no different from the apes.

We believe in populating the earth until there's standing room only and then
colonizing Mars; They believe humans are in the twilight of their existence.

Liberals beatify health, no-smoking, camping, non-fossil-fuel travel, organic
foods - all while creating exotic new diseases in pursuit of polymorphous
perversity. Don't be confused by your capacity for reason! We're just apes. A
chief ingredient of the liberal religion is the bestialization of humanity. So
on one hand, we have to give up on SUVs, snow mobiles, and indoor plumbing, but
on the other hand -- at least we get the funky bestial behavior! (Including
actual bestiality - keep reading!) They believe in the coarse physical
appropriation of women by men -- hook-ups, trophy wives, strip clubs. Through
movies, magazines and TV, liberals promote a cult of idealized beauty that is so
extreme as to be unimaginable. We must listen to Hollywood airheads like Julia
Roberts and George Clooney because they are beautiful. Today's worship of
physical perfection is more grotesque than Hitler's notion of the Aryan.

Box of Books

"White Guilt : How Blacks and Whites Together Destroyed the Promise of the Civil
Rights Era" by Shelby Steele (HarperCollins)

Blacks in America, Steele says, have traded away their personal responsibility
and control of their own destinies for a belief in their own permanent
victimhood and a dependency on government handouts (like affirmative action)
from white liberals who feel guilty about the country's racist past. Steele,
whom George Will calls "America's most discerning black writer," is a Hoover
Institution fellow. Will says he "casts a cool eye on yet another soft bigotry
of low expectations" that destroys blacks' individuality and reduces them to
helpless victims of their skin color and an allegedly racist social structure.

"Death in the Haymarket : A Story of Chicago, the First Labor Movement, and the
Bombing That Divided Gilded Age America" by James Green (Pantheon)

Only seven policemen were killed in Chicago on May 4, 1886, when a bomb was set
off at a riot following a labor union rally in a farmers market. But thanks to
the sensationalistic coverage by newspapers of the subsequent trial of the
alleged ringleaders, what became known as the Haymarket Riot created the
country's first "Red Scare" and set back the labor union movement for decades.
Though subsequently shown to be innocent, four of eight convicted
socialist-anarchist labor leaders were hanged. Critics have generally praised
labor professor Green's readable account of the tumultuous era, the riot and the
long-term effect the controversy had on labor unionism.

"Depression, War, and Cold War: Studies in Political Economy" By Robert Higgs
(Oxford University Press)

No American knows more about the link between the growth of Big Government and
war than Higgs, whose 1989 classic "Crisis and Leviathan" documented how each
new war or economic crisis ratchets up government's size and power at the
expense of individual liberty and a free society. This time economic historian
Higgs asks -- and answers -- such questions as why the Great Depression lasted
so long, how the Cold War altered relations between government and big business
and how Congress abetted the growth of the military-industrial complex.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             624 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                           January 26, 2011 Wednesday

1984 riots: US mulls immunity to Indian minister

LENGTH: 282  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, Jan. 26 -- The United States reviews whether Indian Urban
Development Minister Kamal Nath, who has been summoned by a New York court for
his alleged role in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, can be given diplomatic immunity.
"The immunity question remains under review here at the State Department, and we
have not made any determination at this point," State Department spokesman
Philip J Crowley told reporters on Monday when asked about a reported query by
the Indian Embassy here in this regard. "We are following closely a civil
complaint involving Minister Kamal Nath," Crowley said. "There are - this is
still a legal process that is unfolding. It's unclear whether there's any live
action against Minister Nath and what its content might be." In April 2010, SFJ
along with two individuals filed a law suit against Kamal Nath in the district
court under Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA) & Torture Victim Protection Act (TVPA)
asking the court to order compensatory and punitive damages against Nath,
according to Pannun.

"Alien Tort Claims Act, the law under which trial against Kamal Nath will be
held is specifically created to provide remedy and forum to victims of genocide
to vindicate their complaints," he said.

Plaintiffs have asked for a "jury trial" and will have the right to call upon
survivors and experts on genocide as witnesses to prove that systematic killing
of Sikhs in November 1984 was genocide as defined in Article 2 of the UN
Convention on Genocide, Pannun said. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             625 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 23, 2011 Monday

Mercury News editorial: It's time for California to get smart on crime

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 511 words


The U.S. Supreme Court's ruling Monday makes it official: California's prison
system is an utter disaster and a national disgrace.

For years the courts (and this newspaper) have been calling for California to
clean up its act on prisons' overcrowding, dismal health care and generally
appalling conditions. Instead, California has tried to dodge responsibility by
appealing court rulings that declared its prisons inhumane. The Supreme Court is
the end of the line, so now it appears state officials have no choice but to
release more than 30,000 inmates over the next two years.

And given that California has the highest rate of recidivism in the nation -- 70
percent, speaking of disgraces -- it's a sure thing that there's more crime in
our future. The state system does nothing to turn prisoners toward productive
lives and everything to push nonviolent offenders toward hard-core crime.

The Legislature has spent the past decade either ignoring its 33 prisons or
making them worse. Prison spending has soared faster than any other category
since 2001, but most of it went to increase guards' pay rather than to eliminate
the "needless suffering and death" that the courts recognized.

Lawmakers and governors could have used the past decade to address the obvious
root causes of overcrowding. These include voter-approved sentencing guidelines
that allow judges too little flexibility; parole policies that toss offenders
back in jail for even minor slip-ups; and an utter lack of rehabilitation to
give prisoners half a chance of surviving on the outside.

Now the state has a great resource in newly-elected Attorney General Kamala
Harris, who reduced the recidivism rate for nonviolent offenders in San
Francisco from 54 percent to 10 percent through her "Back on Track" program. It
teaches employment and accountability skills to inmates and high-risk juvenile
offenders before they've become hardened criminals, and it costs $5,000 per
inmate, half the cost of prosecuting a felony. But this program has yet to be
implemented statewide. This means the inmates about to be released will have to
fend for themselves in towns and cities that already have high unemployment
rates.

It's hard to argue for more spending on prison health care or to relieve
overcrowding when law-abiding citizens are struggling. But California is failing
to meet the most basic standard for humane treatment in a civilized society.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, no softy, said California's prisons had "fallen
short of minimum constitutional requirements." Former prison health care czar
Bob Sillen famously called the conditions "Third World."

Who can argue? At San Quentin, more than 50 inmates share a single toilet. What
was built as a gymnasium now houses hundreds of inmates in rows of bunk beds
stacked three high, barely an arm's length apart. It's amazing that there aren't
more riots.

The U.S. Supreme Court has called an end to this embarrassment. The governor and
Legislature need to stop whining and begin making changes that meet civilized
standards and will make Californians safer.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             626 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                           January 31, 2002, Thursday

Razorwire wall of silence

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Mike Steketee

SECTION: FEATURES-COLUMN- MEDIA; Pg. M05

LENGTH: 701 words


After Sunday's restrictions, journalists can get closer to the terrorists in
Cuba than to Australia's asylum seekers, writes Mike Steketee

'WE know nuttin" is the Howard Government's defence of the latest ban on media
coverage of asylum seekers in detention camps.

Immigration Minister Philip Ruddock says neither he nor his department issued
the instruction for reporters, photographers and camera crew covering the
protests at Woomera to be moved 250m further back so that they could not witness
any of the activities taking place inside. All it required to provoke the arrest
of ABC journalist Natalie Larkins was her asking one question too many in
response to a security officer's request for her to leave.

John Howard, too, denies any responsibility for the ban. Inquiries led to Leonie
Kennedy, a public servant in the Federal Attorney-General's Department, who said
she was speaking as a spokesperson for the Australian Protective Service, which
provides security for government property and personnel. The APS visited Woomera
on Saturday night to review security arrangements and "based on its expertise
and knowledge of security made a recommendation that the barrier be moved".

Who was the recommendation made to? Australian Correctional Management,
responded Kennedy, referring to the private firm contracted to run Woomera. She
"assumed" that ACM requested the review. "I can't get any better information
beyond that at this time," she added.

Getting information about ACM operations almost invariably meets a blank wall of
commercial confidentiality. However, apart from the involvement of the APS, a
government agency, there are other signs of government collusion. Ruddock could
have been quoting Kennedy when he told the ABC's AM program on Monday: "I don't
think it is appropriate I should have information about an operational issue on
which experts who advise on these matters have formed a view." In other words,
hell, we're only the Government.

The Immigration Minister, like the Prime Minister, described it as an
"operational" decision by the APS based on concern for the safety of the asylum
seekers, or "detainees", as the Government calls them. That is one way of
looking at it. Another is that the demonstrations staged by desperate people in
an attempt to draw attention to their situation is becoming simply too
embarrassing for the Government. This story is receiving considerable attention
overseas, including in the US and Europe, and little of it is flattering. Among
the media outside the Woomera camp this week is a German television crew.

The media ban is consistent with the out-of-sight-out-of-mind strategy the
Government has used throughout to control media coverage of asylum seekers. It
is not subtle but to date it has been effective. Australians have had only the
odd glimpse of the human faces behind a category of people whom the Government
demonises as queue jumpers, illegals and potential terrorists. The strong public
support it enjoys on this issue would be threatened by too many cases such as
those of the photographs run in the media of the three children who drowned on
their way to Australia.

Similarly, the Government is intent on the focus remaining on its policy of
deterrence rather than the unfortunate people forced to implement it by living
in confinement in harsh conditions.

The Government rejects any comparison between the detention centres and
concentration camps or prisons.

But journalists' requests to enter the centres are routinely refused, except on
the occasions when they have been allowed to photograph and report on damage
caused by riots.

The US has allowed journalists to within 180m of the compound at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, which houses al-Qa'ida terrorists, supposedly the world's most dangerous
prisoners, so that they can report on the conditions in which they are being
held. Following the new media restrictions applied at Woomera on the weekend,
journalists in Australia have to stay more than five times as far away from a
facility where, on the basis of previous processing of claims, the vast majority
of people are genuine refugees, including the victims of the Taliban and
al-Qa'ida.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2002 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                             627 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                               The Daily Monitor

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

US man ordered freed after four decades in solitary

BYLINE: AFP -1

LENGTH: 354  words


A US federal judge ordered the release of the country's longest-serving solitary
confinement prisoner, who was imprisoned as such almost 43 years

Washington - A US federal judge ordered the release of the country's
longest-serving solitary confinement prisoner, who was imprisoned as such almost
43 years. Albert Woodfox, 68, was placed in solitary confinement at Louisiana
State Penitentiary at Angola and other facilities in the state, due to a
since-overturned conviction for the death of a guard during a 1972 prison riot.
US District Judge James Brady ordered Woodfox's unconditional release, and
barred any further trial on the murder charges.

"Evidence supporting claims of Mr Woodfox's innocence gives this Court even more
reason to question his two previously overturned convictions," Brady wrote in
his order. In November, the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit overturned
Woodfox's conviction, but he was charged again at state level in February.
Woodfox has long maintained his innocence, namely citing a witness who said he
was not involved in the murder, as well as scientific review of evidence at the
scene that exculpated him and a polygraph test that found he had truthfully
denied his involvement. Brady's order "arbitrarily sets aside jury decisions"
based on "faulty procedural issues," Louisiana Department of Justice spokesman
Aaron Sadler was quoted as saying by local media. "With today's order, the court
would see fit to set free a twice-convicted murderer who is awaiting trial again
for the brutal slaying of Corrections Officer Brent Miller." Brady listed five
"exceptional circumstances" for Woodfox to be released unconditionally and
immediately, rather than the usual conditional release pending trial. In
addition to Woodfox's age and "poor health," the judge also listed his "lack of
confidence in the state to provide a fair third trial, the prejudice done onto
Mr Woodfox by spending over 40 years in solitary confinement, and finally the
very fact that Mr Woodfox has already been tried twice and would otherwise face
his third trial for a crime that occurred over 40 years ago."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1148


                       Copyright 2015 Nation Media Group
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved


                             628 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 12, 2002, Saturday

If anybody comes across the official guidelines on How To Read Like An Ant,
could they send me a copy?

BYLINE: Mick Hume

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 632 words


UNLIKE some people one could mention, the Chancellor, Gordon Brown, and his wife
Sarah have never sought to make political capital out of their private life. But
that did not stop others turning their ten-day-old daughter's tragic death into
public property. On Tuesday every tabloid newspaper covered its front page with
a picture of the shattered Browns leaving hospital, and filled pages inside with
platitudes, psychobabble and mawkishness, all of which added up to the shocking
revelation that it is terrible when a baby dies. One paper's front-page
editorial comment began: "No words will comfort Gordon and Sarah Brown today."
Some might think that a good reason to shut up and leave them alone. Instead,
the article ended "See pages 4, 5 & 6", where several thousand more
non-comforting words could be found. Many pundits offered the helpful advice
that the bereaved parents would never get over it. They certainly have little
chance of getting on with their lives while TV crews descend on their home town
and, without a trace of irony, tell the world that "this is where the Browns
will seek the privacy to come to terms with their loss".

WHAT with their "war zone", "mayhem", "anarchy", "return to Dark Ages" and
"frenzied mob", the sports pages after last weekend's FA Cup matches read more
like news reports from the war against the Taleban.

One sports commentator even wrote of "the evil" within football, as if Osama bin
Laden and the Cardiff chairman Sam Hamman (who was accused of "provoking" the
crowd by patting himself on the head) were somehow on the same team. Yet away
from the fantasy football world where headline writers run riot, to those of us
who remember the "Dark Ages" of football violence in the Seventies and Eighties,
last Sunday's pitch invasions at Cardiff and Aston Villa looked more like a
picnic in the park, with a few empty miniature bottles thrown in. Having
recently been puffed up into the symbol of patriotic pride, football now finds
itself condemned as the embodiment of all that is wrong with Britain. When it
comes to our national game, the one thing we always seem guaranteed to lose is
any sense of perspective.

THE Big Girl started Big School this week, taking it in her stride with the
maturity we have come to expect from our four-and-three-quarter-year-old.

Her parents found it far more of an ordeal. Perhaps, along with the Little Girl
turning three, it made us aware of the passing of time. Or maybe we were just
depressed at the prospect of doing all that homework. It is a good school, and
of course we want to be involved. But the Government's education ethos has
pushed the principle of parental participation so far that one sometimes wonders
exactly who is being tested. One parental advice sheet suggests that we rehearse
for bedtime stories: "Read through the story yourself first ... Decide -even
practice -the bits to read like a giant or an ant." If anybody comes across the
official guidelines on How To Read Like An Ant, could they send me a copy?

AND while I am staging a parental protest: in case we don't have enough to worry
about, witness the great debate about whether children are more at risk with a
mobile phone (because they can get mugged) or without one (because they can't
call for help). Perhaps we should not let children out at all, certainly not
with a bike, trainers or anything that might catch the eye of a thieving
toe-rag. On the other hand, anybody who thinks that kids use mobiles for safety
reasons should get out more themselves. Obviously, my teenage niece spent nearly
Pounds 100 sending text messages on her mum's mobile during a weekend in Paris
because she was scared stiff about rabid French dogs and rioting asylum-seekers.

Mick.Hume@spiked-online.com


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited


                             629 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             April 5, 2014 Saturday

How a young civil servant named Mackenzie King made his name

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. IN2

LENGTH: 1664 words


In 1907, during the Labour Day weekend, British Columbia was the scene of riots
opposing the immigration of Chinese, Japanese and Indians to Canada. The
immigrants were looking for work and opportunity for their families, but white
B.C. residents were, frankly, racist, like their neighbours in the U.S., where
the Asiatic Exclusion League worked to keep non-whites out of Seattle and San
Francisco.

In Trouble on Main Street: Mackenzie King, Reason, Race and the 1907 Vancouver
Riots, historian Julie F. Gilmour looks at this period of Canadian history and,
in particular, the involvement of a well-educated young civil servant named
William Lyon Mackenzie King. The book documents King's visits to the U.S.,
Britain, China, Japan and India to explore the delicate issues involving
immigration and the opium trade, and how he helped forge Canada's diplomatic
independence from Britain.

Canadians think of Mackenzie King as one of our more eccentric prime ministers.
He remained a bachelor with a close relationship with his mother. He conducted
seances. He thought of Adolf Hitler as a Wagnerian hero who would lead Germany
into a brilliant future.

Your book examines the early career of King before he entered politics, at the
turn of the century when he was a civil servant. You suggest he was racist - and
note that prime minister Wilfred Laurier was too.

His mother is still alive during the years I cover and he is still very close to
her. She writes him letters and underlines passages in books she sends to him to
read on his travels. When we meet him here he is ambitious, he is driven, he is
intelligent and he thinks about his potential as a statesman.

He is not the elderly eccentric, slightly neurotic man that we often see him as
when he is older. Here he is a young, fresh-faced, ambitious climber.

He is looking for ways to contribute to his society and do it in a way that will
make him a success. For him it is politics. He wants to be prime minister.

What I didn't realize until I read your book was how well-educated he was. He
went to the University of Chicago and Harvard.

If we read his CV we would have seen someone who is going somewhere. Here is a
Canadian who has a lot of talent. This is part of the reason these very
impressive men in Britain and India and China are willing to meet with him.

Canada at the turn of the century was still very much under British domination.
We weren't independent. We had to pass everything under the noses of the Brits.
When King went abroad he had to work out of the British embassy as a "colonial"
guest. It must have been harder to achieve his goals when he had those
limitations.

I see them as incredible advantages when he was travelling abroad. We would
never have access to the high level of diplomats and ministers that we had
except that we were part of the British diplomatic scene.

It is during these years we have a shift in our primary protector in the world.
It is still Great Britain, of course, this is why the riots in Vancouver are so
important. We were interfering with Britain's policy toward Japan by allowing
violence against the Japanese in Canada and damage to their property. [Japan and
Britain had formed an alliance.] We were causing tension between Japan and Great
Britain.

Part of the story is this interesting transition between the U.S. and Britain
towards Canada. [The American government was also concerned about Asian
immigration and President Theodore Roosevelt was dealing with an economic
downturn.]

Wouldn't we normally have had Britain just step in for us to negotiate with the
Japanese? Your book suggests King was a go-between, balancing the Americans and
the Brits.

King is a wonderful character in this story because he is able to represent the
three countries in the Atlantic triangle: Canada, Great Britain and the United
States. It provided us with very skilled, very high-ranking diplomatic resources
in Beijing and Tokyo. Claude MacDonald, the British ambassador to Japan, and Sir
John Jordan, the British Envoy Extraordinary to China, were very well respected
and skilled diplomats and they gave King support in his negotiations that made
his mission possible.

How did his observation of the opium trade and his participation in diplomacy
with China and Japan help make Canada's government more independent from
Britain?

In this book I wanted to show this sense of Canada as a nation emerges even
before the First World War. We are starting to see the importance of having our
own diplomatic missions abroad. We are starting to see that Canadian interests
don't always coincide with Britain and the United States. We have to find ways
to present our ideas abroad on our own terms. But we still recognize in this
period that we can't do it without British support and without the Americans on
board.

King's diplomatic concerns were different from those of Great Britain.

Great Britain had a huge investment in the production and use of opium in China
because it made a great deal of money exporting the drug from India to China.
King was more interested in the suppression of opium trade because he saw it as
a moral and social ill on the West Coast of Canada. So he was closer to the
United States in his concerns about it.

But he recognized that as part of the British delegation in Shanghai in 1909 he
had an obligation to maintain solidarity with the British. King was more wary of
any increase of Japanese immigration to Canada. Knowing the British had a
foreign policy goal that was important to them meant Canada had to back off any
exclusionary legislation to keep the Japanese out of Canada. Canada's interests
abroad are different and King started pushing for Canada to have representation
in Beijing and representation in Tokyo.

When King was prime minister in the 1920s, we opened our own embassy in Japan so
that Canada would have its own information out of Asia and would not have to
rely solely on Britain or America in order to act.

Canada did not change its attitude toward immigrants until many years after
World War II, during the time King was still prime minister. Immigrants were
selected in order of descending ethnic preference: northern Europeans, southern
Europeans, Jews, then Asians at the very bottom of the list. This is a troubling
history.

We weren't alone in that. This hierarchy of racial categories was something we
shared with the United States and Great Britain. There is a 1911 report from the
U.S. government explicitly giving this hierarchy to its immigration officers, so
it's a well-known, widely shared list of racial preferences.

Part of why I started looking at King in 1907 is that I had been writing about
King in 1947, 1948 and 1949 and the decision to allow for the entry of Displaced
Persons into Canada after World War II. King was very anxious about Canadians'
response to immigration and one has to speculate that part of this nervousness
was related to his observations of what happened during the riots in Vancouver
in 1907.

He was aware that Canadians responded badly to the idea of open immigration from
unpreferred areas. He eventually was sold on opening Canada's doors to Displaced
Persons by civil servants in the Department of Labour and the Department of
External Affairs, who told him that this would be useful for Canada on the world
stage and help with our chronic labour shortages. And in order to fill those
gaps his people created a program allowing for Displaced Persons to come under
one-year contracts.

This was also explicitly discussed in terms of their racial background.
Anti-Semitic decisions get made. It was decided that Jewish workers would make
poor forest industry workers and they were selected for work in the garment
industry in Toronto, for example. It's a self-rationalizing process where they
were saying, "No, we're not being racist. We're being objective about people's
skills."

Canada has gone through many shifts regarding immigration. At the turn of the
20th century the Chinese were considered prone to vice and living in unhygienic
quarters. These are the kinds of criticisms thrown at single men or those in
poverty who send their money home. But they have less to do with race than class
circumstances.

My students today are really surprised by this. They have grown up in a
multicultural Canada. But I want them to be aware that we need to protect our
openness to multiculturalism and diversity. Because it is not a given that we
will always be this way.

What is the big thing you'd like us to take away about Mackenzie King from
reading your book?

I'd like us to understand that he is not really the caricature that we often
see, the guy at the seance, the one talking to his dead mother and dog. This is
a man who reflects the complications of Edwardian Canada.

What did you learn about him in these early years that helped you to understand
him in his later years?

I was struck by his deep investigation into the damages at the Vancouver riots.
He would have been in touch directly with each of the victims and their lawyers
and in touch with the leaders of the Japanese and Chinese communities. He saw
first-hand the magnitude of damage Canadians could cause when they were fearful
of immigration.

He would always have this in the back of his mind as he wrestled with
immigration when he became Prime Minister. It also teaches us a lot about how
important he found international relations and how he valued being a statesman
and being among the most powerful men in government. He found the friendships
and connections he made very energizing.

A lot of the most amazing stories in my book come from his private international
relations diaries, which are hard to access (they are on microfiche only in
academic libraries or in the National Archive). He makes fascinating
observations about Islam and Hindu art and geishas. The opium law that he wrote
and was passed in Parliament is our first federal narcotics control law.

I hope my book will encourage more people to seek out his diaries.

jhunter@thestar.ca

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Japanese immigrant stands before his Vancouver shop after it was
vandalized by the Asiatic Exclusion League in September 1907. CANADIAN PRESS
file photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2014 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                             630 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           December 15, 2015 Tuesday

Would Trump flourish here? Unlikely

BYLINE: Irvin Studin

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 843 words


The recent call by U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump for the wholesale
exclusion of Muslims from entry into the United States can only give thinking
Canadians some degree of comfort that our founders created Canada, in
constitutional terms, as the negation of the American project.

For Trump's proposal lives within the darkest traditions of history's bombastic
demagogues, clever and less clever alike, who helped to soften the body politic
over time with rhetorical cuts that eventuated in violent pogroms.

I say this as a friend of the United States and an admirer of American
civilization. But I also say this in recognition of the fact that, since 9/11,
the political rhetoric and media discourse in the U.S. - more than in any other
democracy - have grown increasingly permissive in their references to Islam,
Muslim Americans, and Muslims in general.

While Trump's proposal has been met with opposition from many - not all -
American public leaders, it has easily succeeded in further stigmatizing Muslims
at a time when the strategic chaos in the Middle East has not come close to
peaking, and when there is no end in sight to ISIS- or Al Qaeda-inspired or
directed attacks on soft targets in countries outside of that region.

History tells us that the marriage of irresponsible political oratory and
degrading social trust among citizens can lead to great violence against
population segments that are not trusted. On this logic, Trump's volleys portend
great ills for social happiness and stability in the U.S. in the aftermath of
future terrorist attacks.

The Cronulla riots in Sydney, Australia, in December 2005 are but one example of
what can happen in even the most peaceable of countries when public paranoia is
misdirected, or not corrected, by political leadership.

In the event, Australia, where I was working at the time, was still reeling from
the suicide attacks a couple of months earlier in Bali, Indonesia - this on top
of the 2002 Bali bombings. While the Cronulla riots had nothing directly to do
with those attacks, poor political rhetoric, including from then prime minister
John Howard, and philistine media coverage conspired to embed in the public
psychology the idea that groups of young Lebanese-Australians in conflict with
groups of Anglo-Saxon Australians were analogous to the clash of civilizations
suggested by Bali and the contemporaneous wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

No one died in the Cronulla riots, but the take-away for an outside observer of
these quasi-pogroms in one of the world's most relaxed democracies is how the
Lebanese-Australians - almost universally born and raised in Australia - were
stripped of their Australian identity in the public narrative. When the going
got tough, they became only Lebanese or, worse still, Middle Eastern.

The word "pogrom" is a Russian term, born in Russia's 19th-century anti-Jewish
pogroms. In the most famous of those pogroms, following the 1881 assassination
of Tsar Alexander II, Lev Pinsker, a doctor from my parents' native Odessa,
penned one of Zionism's major tracts out of anger at not being able to become a
true Russian despite his Russophilia. Pinsker's conclusion was that no matter
how hard the Jew tried to become Russian, the pogroms would always serve as a
reminder that he was fundamentally seen as a Jew.

The lesson for today's Canada is that political rhetoric matters. The politician
is a pedagogue. And political leaders are the top pedagogues in the country. We
forget this at our peril, even if deference to formal institutions is in great
decline. But control of the machinery of state and its communications apparatus
can be decisive in how we behave toward one another as Canadians - especially at
times of significant domestic or international tension or upheaval.

Back to Trump. While Canada, too, has been recently touched, directly and
indirectly, by terrorism of Islamic inspiration, we have thus far, with
exceptions, been more measured in our political rhetoric. Perhaps this is
because our instincts and traditions in majority-minority relations, while not
without significant blemishes, are more prudent than those of our American
brethren. We have come to a different conclusion because our society and history
are different, and because we have given such questions considerable thought and
praxis. Canadian laws and Canadian public leaders, without exemption, today see
Canada as a no-pogrom society.

Of course, before the dynamism of our American neighbours, and in the event of
more terrorist attacks, we Canadians will have to be more deliberate in ensuring
that we continue to respond in ways that are in keeping with our own realities.
Our political leaders, in what they say and do and legislate, will be pivotal in
disciplining this response. They may well be the difference between a society
that continues to keep its cool (and sense of humour), and one in which we begin
to kill each other.

Irvin Studin is editor-in-chief and publisher of Global Brief magazine, and also
president of the Institute for

21st Century Questions.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                             631 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           November 21, 2013 Thursday

US House resolution expresses concern over violence against Indian minorities;
backs visa denial to Modi

LENGTH: 522  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A resolution introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives calls upon the
United States to include the issue of religious freedom in India in its
strategic dialogue with the South Asian country and backed continued denial of
American visa to Gujarat chief minister Narendera Modi on grounds of violations
of religious freedom. The resolution shares the opinion of the U.S Department of
State and the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom
(USCIRF) that the Gujarat government has not adequately pursued justice for the
victims of the 2002 violence and remains concerned by reports from journalists
and human rights groups about the complicity of local officials in the 2002
violence. Modi is widely believed to have backed violence against Muslims in
Gujarat in 2002. He was denied a U.S. visa in 2005. Modi is BJP's candidate for
Indian prime ministership in the upcoming general election.

The resolution in the US House was moved by Democratic Congressman Keith Ellison
and Republican Joe Pitts. The sponsors of the resolution "commend the United
States Government for exercising its authority in 2005 under the International
Religious Freedom Act of 1998 to deny a United States visa to Narendra Modi on
the grounds of religious freedom violations, and encourages it to review the
applications of any individuals implicated in religious freedom violations under
the same standard." Supported by a bipartisan group of legislators, the
resolution was assigned to a congressional committee, which will consider it
before possibly sending it on to the House or Senate as a whole. The sponsors of
the resolution express concern over incidents of violence against minorities and
call for religious freedom and related human rights to be included in the United
States India Strategic Dialogue, and for these issues to be raised directly with
federal and state Indian Government officials. The resolution commends the role
of India's National Human Rights Commission and the Indian Supreme Court, which
has led to some convictions in Gujarat riot cases and the arrest of a few
high-level leaders in the Gujarati administration. Among other things, the
resolution asks India to increase training on human rights and religious freedom
standards and practices for police and the judiciary, particularly in states
with a history or likelihood of communal violence. More importantly, it calls on
Gujarat and other Indian states with anti-conversion laws to repeal such
legislation and ensure freedom to practice, propagate, and profess ones religion
as enshrined in the Indian constitution; The lawmakers backing the resolution
also urge New Delhi to empower the National Commission on Minorities with
enforcement mechanisms, such as the ability to conduct trials and hear appeals.
The resolution cites acts of violence against Muslims, Christians and other
minorities and recognizes the "suffering of all Indian citizens who have been
victims of religious violence, including the victims of all faiths from the 1992
Babri Mosque riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots, the 2008 Odisha riots, and violence
that is ongoing today."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             632 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                                November 8, 2013

Policy and piracy on choppy seas

BYLINE: Kevin Davie

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 967 words



HIGHLIGHT: Kevin Davie reflects on a recent conference in Rabat held to explore
the potential of a re-energised Atlantic Basin.


You don't have to wander far in Morocco's capital city of Rabat to stumble
across its ancient history -- at least to the Roman ruins, which are a feature
of the country's administrative capital today.

Some of the story has been of instability. As recently as 200 years ago, pirates
ruled here.

Interestingly, the piracy was stopped by a nation you would not have thought was
active here at the time: the United States.

The Europeans were used to paying the pirates off but their demands grew to
unaffordable levels.

The Americans decided they would no longer pay tribute and dispatched their
navy, defeating the Barbary pirates at Tripoli in the early 1800s and putting an
end to piracy in the region.

This may seem like old news now but themes of insecurity and even piracy were to
feature during the two-day Atlantic Dialogues conference.

Unstable region
 Much of the region is now unstable, or potentially so, or, in the case of
Syria, distressingly so.

Tunisia, where the Arab Spring first dawned two years ago, has had 17
governments since.

Others point glumly to the level of disorder in Libya, so much so that a group
recently kidnapped Prime Minister Ali Zeidan to register their dissent.

Piracy has been on the decline off Somalia but it is spiking off Nigeria, the
difference being the Somalis held the ships as ransom while the Nigerians sell
the ships' oil.

Where there is disorder, the narcs also move in: so tiny Guinea Bissau is now
reportedly a conduit for cocaine from South America to Europe.

Narcotics and terrorism jointly thrive in conditions of instability.

People are dying
 The instability manifests in the legion of people desperately trying to get
across the Mediterranean to safer shores.

In recent cases, 359 people drowned in early October off the Italian island of
Lampedusa and, just last week, 92 migrants, mostly women and children, were
found to have died of thirst in northern Niger.

One delegate told me the Europeans are used to sending aid to Africa in the hope
it will keep the migrants out.

But they are coming in in droves. A new plan is needed.

The idea of a re-energised Atlantic as a counterpoint to the exploding growth in
the Asia-Pacific has been around for a year or two now, and pundits have been
getting excited over some of the numbers.

The Atlantic remains the world's foremost trading geographic region. Dan
Hamilton, of the Centre for TransAtlantic Relations at Johns Hopkins University,
notes "the volume of Atlantic commerce is staggering. Despite the rise of the
Pacific, more trade and investment flow across the Atlantic than any other part
of the world."

Consumers entering the Atlantic economy
 Since we're talking of the two largest economies globally, that of the United
States and Europe, there is no surprise here.

But, says Hamilton, "rapidly developing Atlantic countries are connecting with
the global marketplace and becoming a major engine of the global economy. Never
have so many workers and consumers entered the Atlantic economy as quickly or
suddenly as in the last 15 years."

Development needs energy and the region has this in spades. The Atlantic Basin
already supplies more of the United States' imported energy than does the Middle
East, says Hamilton.

One of the breakaway sessions I attended was on the growth of the middle class
in emerging economies. The numbers are as impressive.

The new middle classes are transforming societies everywhere. But in Brazil,
where the new middle class is a big part of the economic success, there have
been riots in 100 cities recently. Guess who was doing the rioting? The new
middle class.

I never got to speak to any Brazilian about this but press reports have said the
riots started over a proposed nominal increase in public bus fares.

Riots continue
 This mooted increase was rescinded but the riots continued and spread.

Speculation about the causes for the unrest includes concerns that too much
money is being poured into soccer stadiums for the soccer World Cup.

Taxes, corruption and violent crime are also said to be too high.

My lunch group was not exactly upbeat about the middle-class story, with someone
suggesting that, based on past experience, such as in South America, the newly
well-off may yet turn against their formerly poor kin and embrace fascism to
protect their new-found privileges.

Brazil was more than well-represented at the Atlantic Dialogues. This is not
surprising because its seaboard is prominent in the Atlantic and its economy has
done spectacularly well in recent times.

Argentina shares a chunk of coastline similar in size to Brazil and was
represented at the conference, but it was so low-profile it may as well not have
been there.

Argentina committs economic suicide
 "Argentina committed economic suicide," a Latin American specialist said,
explaining that its populist, nationalistic and protectionist policies under
President Christina Fernandez meant it had told the world it was not open for
business.

I had imagined that the Atlantic would lap calmly on to these Moroccan shores.

Perhaps I was thinking of the Mediterranean. But not so -- the waves roll in
large, smashing against the rocky shore.

One delegate, a surfer from Hawaii, told me Morocco has some of the best surf
anywhere.

The breaking waves and dramatic shoreline suggest a deeper, moodier past -- a
past when the pirates ruled here. But there is a piracy of different kind afoot
these days.

The Americans have been outed for tapping the phones of, among others, the
Brazilians, who are peeved about it, and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is
furious.

One session discussed piracy over lunch, which was on a boat. The conversation
was stable, participants reported afterwards, but not the boat, which rocked
gently as they ate.

Kevin Davie attended the Atlantic Dialogues as a guest of the German Marshall
Fund

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             633 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                      Fraser Coast Chronicle (Queensland)

                            April 23, 2014 Wednesday

Computer off limits to hacking accused

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 232  words


A MAN accused of hacking into one of the world's biggest online gaming networks
and a social media account of its founder has been denied all access to
computers by a Maryborough magistrate.

Shane Stephen Duffy yesterday applied in Maryborough Magistrates Court to change
his bail conditions put in place after being arrested last month.

The court heard the 21-year-old man needed computer access to speak to his
girlfriend in the United States and to complete a TAFE course he intended to
enroll in. Magistrate Graham Hillan refused the application because of the
seriousness of the nine charges against Mr Duffy.

He is charged with creating a backdoor into the servers of Riot Games and
hacking into a Twitter account associated with the company. The charges include
fraud, using a restricted computer without consent and possessing equipment for
the purpose of committing an offence.

Mr Duffy's bail also bans him from all contact with employees of Riot Games.

The developer is the creator of League of Legends, which has more than 67
million players across the world.

Mr Duffy was arrested in Kingaroy last month after an investigation by
Queensland Police with assistance from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in
the United States and Riot Games.

Electronic files were also seized from a property in Poona on the same day.

Mr Duffy will next appear in Maryborough Magistrates Court in June.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FFC


                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             634 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 15, 2008 Friday

Nation's top cop: Prisons in Florence properly staffed: U.S. Attorney General
Michael Mukasey met with law enforcement officers in Denver Thursday.

BYLINE: Robert Boczkiewicz, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 623 words


Aug. 15--DENVER -- The nation's top law enforcement officer said Thursday the
four federal prisons in Florence "are properly staffed."

U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey made the comment in response to a question
from The Pueblo Chieftain. He was asked how his administration is dealing with
problems of staffing, safety and security at the prisons.

Mukasey, head of the Justice Department, was meeting with federal, state and
local law enforcement officers for the first time in Denver since taking office
in November. Federal prisons, through the Bureau of Prisons, are part of the
department.

"We recognize the Bureau of Prisons has taken a major hit under its current
budget," Mukasey replied to The Chieftain during a news conference. "We feel
staffing has been adequate."

He said the department is monitoring the situation. "All prisons are stressed."
Referring specifically to the prisons in Florence, Mukasey said, "We believe
they are properly staffed. That does not mean something can't go wrong."

State and federal legislators have raised concern over the years about whether
there are enough guards at the prisons. One of them, the high-security
penitentiary, has a history of violence and riots.

U.S. Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo., in April told the attorney general in a letter
he is concerned the practice of transferring guards among prisons when security
needs arise "may leave other facilities dangerously understaffed."

Salazar made his comment soon after a riot at the high-security penitentiary by
150-200 inmates in which two inmates were shot to death by guards in towers.
Off-duty guards and guards from other prisons were called to quell the riot.

Another inmate died Sunday after being stabbed several times by another inmate
at the high security penitentiary.

Salazar's letter said he was requesting a report from the U.S. Government
Accountability Office examining "the critical staffing and security needs of the
Florence campus, which I believe is necessary given the failure by the
Department of Justice to address these security concerns in a meaningful way."

Salazar "continues to believe action should be taken to improve security (at the
Florence prisons) and that the Bureau of Prisons should devote more resources to
provide adequate staffing," a spokesman said Thursday in response to a request
from The Chieftain for comment.

Spokesman Michael Amodeo said the GAO report will cover staffing overall in the
federal prison system, with a specific focus on Supermax.

Meanwhile, a frequent advocate of sufficient funding and staffing at prisons,
State Rep. Liane "Buffie" McFadyen, D-Pueblo West, questioned Mukasey's
comments.

"If the attorney general is acknowledging the Bureau of Prison budget is taking
a hit, where is the hit happening if he also says staffing is adequate. That
appears to be incongruent."

She said federal prisons nationwide are short 2,300 employees. "Florence is not
alone."

McFadyen said she thinks the penitentiary "is staffed pretty well." She said she
has not "heard about real changes at Supermax" and "has not heard concern" about
staffing at the other two prisons, the medium-security Federal Correctional
Institution and the minimum-security prison camp.

Staff for Sen. Wayne Allard, R-Colo., did not respond to a request for comment
on the attorney general's remarks.

To see more of The Pueblo Chieftain, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.chieftain.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080815-PB-Nation-s-top-cop-Prisons-in-Florence-properly-staffed-0815

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2008 The Pueblo Chieftain


                             635 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Kremlin expels US election aid groups as campaigners warn of a new iron curtain;

Russia

BYLINE: Tony Halpin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 874 words


The Kremlin accused the United States of interfering in its elections yesterday
as relations between Vladimir Putin and Barack Obama plunged to an icy new low.

Russia ordered the US Agency for International Development (USAID) to halt
operations in the country by October 1, ending two decades of funding for civil
society groups. The Foreign Ministry accused the aid mission of issuing grants
"to influence the political process in the country, including elections at
different levels".

It said that Moscow also had "serious questions" about USAID's activities in the
North Caucasus, where Russian forces are fighting an Islamist insurgency.
Washington rejected the accusations but the row cast fresh doubt on President
Obama's "reset" policy of improving relations with Russia.

Opposition groups said that the Kremlin aimed to silence organisations critical
of Mr Putin after unprecedented public protests against his return to the
presidency for a third term. Nearly 60 per cent of USAID's $50 million (£30
million) budget this year was spent on promoting democracy and human rights.

Groups that received support included Golos, the independent electionmonitoring
body whose documentation of ballot-rigging in December's parliamentary ballot
helped to provoke the largest anti-Kremlin street demonstrations for 20 years.

Liliya Shibanova, the executive director, said that Golos received 80 per cent
of its budget from USAID and its ability to monitor regional elections on
October 14 was now in doubt. She described the attack on US funding as part of
"the repressive machine that has been aimed against NGOs since Putin's return".

"The policy of those in power is to control all processes that occur in Russia
from above, and NGOs that receive financing from abroad ... hinder this policy
so must be strangled," she said.

Grigory Melkonyants, Golos' deputy director, said: "The people who make these
decisions intend to crack down on dissent and criticism in a way that is as
harsh as possible. It is frightening even to think about what may happen
tomorrow."

The abrupt closure of USAID follows a string of repressive laws introduced since
Mr Putin returned to the Kremlin in May. Fines for unsanctioned protests were
increased, libel was restored as a criminal offence, internet restrictions were
introduced and nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) were forced to declare
themselves "foreign agents" if they received money from abroad.

"This seems to be just the beginning," said Lev Ponomaryov, head of the For
Human Rights group. "I think Russia has chosen isolationism. We will relapse
into the Soviet Union ... The iron curtain will be installed at some point."

Svetlana Gannushkina, a former member of the Kremlin's presidential human rights
council, said that Russian businesses were afraid of a backlash from the
authorities for supporting pro-democracy groups.

Victoria Nuland, the State Department spokeswoman, said: "It is regrettable that
Russia's taken this decision, first and foremost for the Russian people. We
completely reject the notion that our support for civil society, democracy,
human rights in any way interferes with elections." The closure of USAID would
affect 13 US diplomats and 60 local staff, she added.

John McCain, a Republican Senator and outspoken critic of the "reset" policy
with Russia, described USAID's expulsion as "an insult to the United States and
finger in the eye of the Obama administration". He said: "An increasingly
autocratic government in Russia wants to limit the ability of its own citizens
to freely and willingly work with American partners on the promotion of human
rights, democracy, and the rule of law in Russia."

Vyacheslav Nikonov, deputy chairman of the foreign relations committee in the
Duma, the Russian parliament, said: "I never thought the agency's operations
were very useful for this country. This agency is an instrument promoting US
policy on the international scene."

President Putin has been more sceptical about the "reset" with the US than his
predecessor, Dmitri Medvedev. Mr Putin blamed Hillary Clinton, the US Secretary
of State, when protests erupted against him in December, saying that she had
"given a signal" to opposition groups to provoke unrest. He claimed that the US
was spending hundreds of millions of dollars on civil society groups to
destabilise Russia.

Putin doesn't want to be buddies

Analysis Tony Halpin

President Obama's policy of enticing Russia into friendlier relations with the
US is running up against Vladimir Putin, a Kremlin leader who doesn't want to be
buddies. The US Ambassador Michael McFaul, the architect of the "reset" policy,
has been the target of Kremlin harassment from the moment he arrived in Moscow
in January. Some Western observers, disillusioned by his refusal to take a
harder line, call him "McFaulty". US criticism has been muted over the
repressive laws introduced by Mr Putin. Madonna was more outspoken than the
State Department over the jailing of the punk band Pussy Riot, and the US found
nothing to say about the expulsion last week of Gennady Gudkov, an opposition
politician, from parliament.

Sooner or later, the US will have to choose between seeking accommodation with
Mr Putin or backing the fight for democracy.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Street protests are seen in Moscow as part of a US-funded attempt to
destabilise the Government of Vladimir Putin, below
ALEXANDER NEMENOV / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             638 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                             March 31, 2013 Sunday

Schock visits controversial regional leader in India

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1242 words


U.S. Rep. AARON SCHOCK, R-Peoria, is trying his hand at international relations
again, and again not without some controversy.

Schock, who represents part of Springfield in Congress, embarked last week on a
trip to India. While there, his delegation met with the leader of the state of
Gujarat, who is considered a possible future prime minister of India.

Schock also invited that official, NARENDRA MODI, chief minister (similar to an
American governor) of Gujarat, to visit the United States.

The problem is, Modi has been denied a U.S. visa because of lingering
allegations that the Gujarat government, under his watch, was complicit in
anti-Muslim riots in 2002 in which hundreds of people died.

Economic development, not that past controversy, was the central theme of a
statement from Schock's office and also a news release from the group paying for
Schock's trip -- the National Indian American Public Policy Institute, based in
the Chicago suburb of Carol Stream. That group is largely funded by businessman
SHALLI KUMAR, according to the Arlington Heights-based Daily Herald. Kumar also
founded a SuperPAC that supported former U.S. Rep. JOE WALSH, R-McHenry, in his
losing 2012 re-election battle against U.S. Rep. TAMMY DUCKWORTH, D-Hoffman
Estates, the newspaper reported.

"Mr. Modi is being hailed as Ronald Reagan of India with his economic miracle in
Gujarat and a message of prosperity for all that transcends religion, caste and
social status," said a news release from the Carol Stream group. "Most countries
view the state of Gujarat to be a great market for its goods and services due to
its incredible growth and a very business-friendly environment."

Schock spokesman STEVE DUTTON noted via email that Schock is a member of the
House Ways and Means Committee's subcommittee on trade. The trip, he said,  is
to meet "high-level Indian government officials, business leaders and members of
the Indian Parliament."

"India is one of the largest and fastest-growing economies in the world, and in
recent years has started to open its prior restrictive trade policies, but much
more needs to be done," Dutton said. "Increasing trade with India is vital to
the U.S. economy."

Back in 2002, according to a Human Rights Watch report, a Muslim mob in the town
of Godhra attacked and set fire to two cars of a train carrying Hindu activists;
58 people were killed. For three days after the train fire, Human Rights Watch
reported, a "retaliatory killing spree by Hindus left hundreds dead and tens of
thousands homeless and dispossessed. The looting and burning of Muslim homes,
businesses, and places of worship was also widespread. Muslim girls and women
were brutally raped."

"What happened in Gujarat was not a spontaneous uprising, it was a carefully
orchestrated attack against Muslims," SMITA NARULA of Human Rights Watch was
quoted as saying. "The attacks were planned in advance and organized with
extensive participation of the police and state government officials."

In a Washington Post article last week, Modi was described as a Hindu
nationalist who has delivered "impressive economic growth." He also is the "most
popular, vote-getting face" of his party, the Post said.

However, the article added, "The stigma of his alleged complicity in riots that
left hundreds of Muslims dead in Gujarat 11 years ago could frighten away
smaller parties that are key to stitching a national coalition government."

The Post also reported that, on the subject of the 2002 riots, "Modi is silent.
Media interviews are granted on condition that no riot-related questions are
asked. Other times, Modi, who has never been convicted of a crime in connection
with the killings, directs reporters to read the court records."

That silence apparently was broken at least once last summer. Modi was quoted in
various publications, including The Indian Express, as saying he had told an
Urdu-language newspaper that he should be hanged if his government did what was
alleged. The Express also quoted him as saying, "What is the meaning of apology
now? I took responsibility then, regretted what had happened and I apologized."
But he also reportedly said the media should apologize to him for their
injustice toward him for a decade.

"But if I am accused because of political compulsion, I have no answer," Modi
said, according to the Hindustan Times.

In February 2010, the Economic Times reported that an investigation team
appointed by the Indian Supreme Court found no "prosecutable evidence" against
Modi arising from the riot.

Still, in November, 25 members of Congress, including seven Republicans, wrote a
letter to then-Secretary of State HILLARY CLINTON asking that the United States
continue to deny Modi entry to the country "due to numerous reports of his
involvement in horrific human rights violations in India."

"As Mr. Modi continues to pursue a potential run for higher office, we believe a
change in policy to his request for a visa will only embolden Modi and his
government's efforts to obstruct further investigations and the tandem
prosecutions that have still to be finished to bring the perpetrators to
justice," the letter states.

Among those signing the letter were Reps. JANICE SCHAKOWSKY, D-Evanston, and
MIKE QUIGLEY, D-Chicago.

ROBERT BLAKE, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for south and central Asia,
said in February that the U.S. is not reconsidering its policy toward Modi,
Reuters news service said in a report on the trip last week.

The Times of India said Schock told reporters that granting a U.S. visa is up to
the administration, but  the members of Congress on the trip, "along with other
Republican lawmakers, will work in that direction with the U.S. administration."

Another member of the delegation with Schock, U.S. Rep. CYNTHIA LUMMIS, R-Wyo.,
said after a meeting with Modi in Ahmedabad that the subject of human rights was
not discussed, according to a story in The Economic Times.

"We have extended an invitation" for Modi to visit the United States, the news
outlet quoted Schock. "We were impressed with what we have seen here, specially
with his statement of 'minimum government, maximum governance.' And as a
Congressman of the Republican Party, I also believe in limited government."

The congressional delegation was to visit other cities, including Bangalore and
New Delhi.

The website of the National Indian American Public Policy Institute,
www.niappi.com, lists former state Rep. DONALD TOTTEN, R-Hoffman Estates, as its
coordinator. It also lists among its "core beliefs" that "All governments by
size and nature are at best inefficient, and more often than not out of sync
with the main street."

The site features a "video comedy" showing three hard-hatted "government
workers" changing a light bulb. Yes, two of them turn the ladder, and when the
new bulb is put in, one says, "Time for a coffee break."

Hilarious.

Schock fumbled an early foray into foreign policy when he suggested, in the
process of announcing his first run for Congress in 2007, that the U.S. could
sell nuclear weapons to Taiwan if China didn't support sanctions against Iran.
It took some days for Schock to retract that statement, but he did easily win
the GOP primary that year, and, as they say, the rest is history.

Bernard Schoenburg is political columnist for The State Journal-Register. He can
be reached at 788-1540 or follow him via twitter.com/bschoenburg. His email
address is bernard.schoenburg@sj-r.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             639 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            December 14, 2012 Friday

Ethnic cleansing are an exercise in management and organisational efficiency

BYLINE: Avinash Celestine

SECTION: COMMENTS & ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 739 words


The analogy may seem more than alittle tasteless and stomach-churning, but
ethnic cleansing, and its related cousin, the communal riot, are an exercise in
management and organisational efficiency.

As has been documented by journalists and researchers, communal riots in this
country and elsewhere are rarely 'spontaneous outbursts of emotion' by 'the
people', despite what leaders who benefit from such riots would have us believe.
Instead, they are planned, directed and controlled with a specific objective in
mind.

A paper published in the American Political Science Review ( Does Combat
Experience Foster Organizational Skill? Evidence from Ethnic Cleansing during
the Partition of South Asia by Saumitra Jha and Steven Wilkinson) provides
evidence of how combat experience of troops of the Indian army after WW II was
relevant to the extent to which different districts in undivided India faced
ethnic cleansing.

In other words, soldiers of the undivided Indian army returning home from the
War, brought with them a specific set of skills - combat skills, organisational
skills and a high level of discipline - which were used to often horrifying
effect during the carnage of the Partition. But those skills also worked to
lower the levels of violence in certain areas as well.

The idea that skills acquired by veterans from the battlefield can be used for
purposes such as ethnic cleansing is hardly new, even with respect to the
Partition. A Congress party investigation at the time into riots in Rawalpindi
district, where the men of the Muslim majority had far more military experience
than their Hindu and Sikh counterparts, pointed out that the pogroms against the
minorities in thosedistricts were 'deliberately organised military campaigns'
led by ex-military men on horseback armed with weapons.

Conversely, in Meerut, where the Hindus were the ones with the deeper military
experience compared to the Muslim minority, it was the latter who were the
target of attacks from ex-soldiers.

This new research goes beyond qualitative accounts to compile a large database
of changes in ethnic populations across districts of India between the 1931 and
1951 census, and relate that to the relative military experience in WW II of the
majority and minority populations in those districts. An additional month of
combat experience, say the authors, was associated with a 1.1 percentage point
reduction in the minority population due to killing, conversion or migration
(equivalent to 17,000 people per district) - a significant effect.



What is also relevant is the relative military experience - in terms of months
of combat during the war - of the majority and minority population in each
district. If the majority population were likely to have more military
experience than men of the minority population, that district was likely to
witness ethnic cleansing on a larger scale.

However, where the minority population was the one with the military skills,
which could act as a deterrent against the majority launching attacks, ethnic
cleansing was less. And, in such cases, where the minority ultimately decided to
emigrate, it was likely to be more organised.

This was the case in Lyallpur, where the Sikh minority had significant military
experience. When they found themselves on the wrong side of the Radcliffe line,
local Sikh leaders decided to march the population into India. "The Sikhs moved
in blocks of 40,000-60,000 and cover about 20 miles a day. It is an
unforgettable sight to see one of these columns on the move. The organisation is
mainly entrusted to ex-servicemen and soldiers on leave... Men on horseback,
armed with spears or swords, provide guards in front, behind and on the
flanks...," wrote a newspaper correspondent who witnessed the migration.

Say the paper's authors, "Military organisational skills appeared to have also
fostered the creation of 'safe havens' in environments where minorities were the
beneficiaries or where economic interdependence made cleansing costly for both
communities."

More generally, armies teach a valuable set of skills to soldiers - combat,
discipline and organisational skills - that remain valuable when officers leave
the units where they serve. Whether those qualities are then used for death and
destruction or for what the authors call "political stability and engendering
institutional change" depends on the societies who employ them.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             640 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday

Vibrant Gujarat 2013: Narendra Modi looks at youth as agents of 'change'

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 711 words


AHMEDABAD | NEW DELHI: The 2013 Vibrant Gujarat summit ended on Sunday without
India Inc making any big ticket announcements or explicitly backing Narendra
Modi as the next prime minister of India, but the Gujarat chief minister may
have used the platform to further establish his stature as a national leader and
a prime ministerial candidate for the next general elections.

In addition to the support from top industrialists such as Ratan Tata, Mukesh
Ambani, Adi Godrej and Anand Mahindra, who shared the dais with him, the
biennial event organised to showcase the state as a global investment hotspot
also armed Mr Modi, fresh from a landslide victory in the state elections last
month, with a much-needed backing from the rest of the world. "It (the summit)
added to the enigma that Modi is," says Delhi-based political analyst Swapan
Dasgupta. It is a very Gujarat-centric event, but there is a political bearing
since the rest of the country gets to know that a development-model like Gujarat
could work outside too.

"And there is certainly a scope to derive some political dividend from it on a
national level," he says. Dasgupta draws attention to the fact that this year
the event marked an end to Mr Modi's diplomatic isolation. Canada and Japan were
summit partners and delegates from the US and UK heaped praise on Mr Modi.

In the aftermath of the riots, the US had refused him a visa, and the UK had
severed diplomatic ties. But over the last decade, Gujarat has emerged as an
investment hotspot, and countries are game to do business. In October last year,
just ahead of the state elections, British deputy foreign minister Hugo Swire
spoke of normalising ties with Gujarat. The US government has been noncommittal.
But Ron Somers, an American businessman and president of the US-India Business
Council, spent time in Gandhinagar with Mr Modi and congratulated him for the
progress the state has made. The prime minister of Canada had sent a special
message to Mr Modi and Japan's vice minister for international affairs Nobuhiko
Sasaki led a 100-strong delegation to Gandhinagar. Ahmedabad-based analyst Sunil
Parekh, who is a Founding Curator, Hub of Global Shapers at the World Economic
Forum, says that the presence of a strong force of foreign delegates indicates
preparedness of the developed world to deal with the man, who they feel, will
play a decisive role in the future. Canada, for instance, has not ever sent a
200-strong delegation for any international conference as they have done here.
Even CII's and FICCI's national conferences do not have such attendance. UK
India Business Council (UKIBC) chair Patricia Hewitt, who served in Tony Blair's
Cabinet from 2001 to 2007, was around for the entire summit. "This helps Modi's
case," he says.

The accolades have, however, drawn sharp reactions from the Congress, which
leads the ruling alliance in Delhi. Cabinet minister and the Congress
spokesperson Manish Tiwary, equated such adulations to the Nazi rule. "In the
decade of '30s, the German corporate sector had a similar fascination with a
gentleman who was at the helm of affairs there. The implications for the world
at large were disastrous... I think even corporate India would be well-served to
draw lessons. Wise people do learn from history," he said.



Many political pundits expect the Congress Party to field the young Nehru-Gandhi
family scion Rahul Gandhi as its PM candidate for 2014. If it turns out to be a
two-way battle between him and Modi, the youth factor could be a game-changer,
and both sides know that well. Backed by strong endorsement by industry captains
and foreign diplomats, Mr Modi used the podium to make a national pitch,
reaching out to young India exhorting them to play a part in nation-building.

In an hour-long fiery speech given in Hindi, Mr Modi spoke of the aspirations of
the youth and how they need to change the systems to empower the country. "He
appeals to a large section of the aspiring youth who want quick action instead
of platitudes. And that he is being backed by a galaxy of India's top
businessmen and foreign diplomats who praise him as a leader who cuts ice with
these people," says a leader from another political party who requested not to
be named.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             641 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            November 11, 2013 Monday

US signals greater acceptance of Narendra Modi, putting 2002 behind

BYLINE: Chidanand Rajghatta

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 820 words


WASHINGTON: The antagonistic official US view of Gujarat chief minister and BJP
prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi is gradually being tempered, seemingly
in the light of his frontrunner status to lead India. The subtle changes come
amid continuing efforts by his expatriate fan base to exculpate him for the 2002
riots.

US officials, some American lawmakers, and the country's corporate community at
large appear keen to put behind the stigma associated with the controversial
politician. They have signaled they are keen to put the 2002 issue behind, a
messaging that appears to stem from the perception that the ruling UPA
government's fortunes are in decline and that of Modi is on the upswing.

A recent Goldman Sachs report titled ''Modi-fying our view: raise India to
Marketweight'' expressing bullish sentiment on India at the prospect of the
Gujarat chief minister becoming prime minister seems has accelerated efforts to
resurrect Modi's reputation. The Goldman Sachs report, which has caused
heartburn in the UPA, isn't the first to speculate on these lines. American
lawmakers and policy planners have been primed over the past year for the return
of BJP to power at the center, with Modi possibly at the helm as Prime Minister,
following what US analysts say is a ''precipitous'' decline in the Congress
party's standing.

A September 1, 2012, report by the US Congressional Research Service (CRS), a
bipartisan and independent research wing of the US Congress that provides briefs
for American lawmakers, has already gone where Goldman Sachs is now treading:
boldly projecting a BJP resurgence. It has also forewarned Washington about the
possible elevation to the Prime Minister office of Narendra Modi, who was denied
a US visa in 2005 for his alleged complicity in the 2002 riots.

''Although still in some disorder in 2011, there are signs that the BJP has made
changes necessary to be a formidable challenger in scheduled 2014 polls. These
include a more effective branding of the party as one focused on development and
good governance rather than emotive, Hindutva-related issues,'' the 94-page
report noted.

''Among the party's likely candidates for the prime ministership in future
elections is Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi, who has overseen impressive
development successes in his state, but who is also dogged by controversy over
his alleged complicity in lethal anti-Muslim rioting there in 2002,'' the report
noted in a surprising projection, before Modi was officials declared BJP's prime
ministerial candidate. It added that Modi has in the past been denied a US visa
under an American law barring entry for foreign government officials found to be
complicit in severe violations of religious freedom.

That visa denial, US officials are now suggesting, will not apply if Modi indeed
becomes India's prime minister. Dismissing visa as a non-issue, one US official
was quoted telling PTI this week that it was largely a creation of the Indian
media and not at all an issue in the US Government.

\xA0

"I think that the United States had a very strong relationship with the previous
Indian government when it was under BJP leadership," the official said. ''the
relationship between the United States and India is an enduring one, it is a
bipartisan in the United States, irrespective of who is in office. And we
believe that (in a) multiparty (system) in India that it is supported by all
political parties, we expect that relationship to continue."

The official also explained that "There is not a lot of angst about him (Modi)"
in the US Government, but the Administration has decided to maintain the status
quo on this issue because it might be seen as an interference in India's
domestic politics, with various political parties seeking to make capital out of
any decision in Washington.

But US lawmakers are not constrained by such perception issues. A day after the
Obama administration official indicated that the denial of visa to chief
minister Modi would be overturned in the event of his becoming Prime Minister,
key Republican lawmakers are reported to have invited him to address an
Indian-American community event, albeit via satellite, on Capitol Hill next
week.

The invitation comes from Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rogers, one of three US
lawmakers who visited Gujarat and met Modi earlier this year. "I want to
congratulate you on winning the nomination of the BJP for Prime Minister of
India," Rogers said in a congratulatory message to Modi, ahead of the November
19 event being billed as "Bharat (India) Day on Capitol Hill."

The day-long event is being hosted by House Republican Conference in the US
House of Representatives of which Congresswoman Rodgers is the chair, in
association with Shalabh Kumar, who is chair of the Indian-American Advisory
Council, and a Modi partisan who helped put together the India trip for US
lawmakers. For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             642 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                            February 16, 2014 Sunday

Modi-Nancy Powell meet signals change in US approach; but will it benefit BJP in
polls?

BYLINE: Chidanand Rajghatta

SECTION: POLITICS AND NATION

LENGTH: 1009 words


WASHINGTON: In the end, it was the United States that was feeling isolated and
blinked, not Narendra Modi. The US decision to extend an olive branch to the
BJP's prime ministerial candidate came, let's say, under the shadow of a solar
panel. It was forged from a hard-headed business decision after Washington saw
many of its allies and rivals make a beeline for the Gujarat chief minister's
doorstep.

Even Washington's own business and corporate community and some of its lawmakers
had been pressing for such political detente for several months, but the Obama
administration had held back on grounds that it did not want its outreach for
Modi being construed as an endorsement for the putative prime minister even as
Washington's human rights constituency held firm on keeping him in the
diplomatic doghouse.

But first, where does the aforementioned solar panel fit in? Well, the latest
flap between Washington and New Delhi over what the US alleges is India's
protectionist measures in the solar sector is illustrative of how important Modi
is to the American scheme of things, aimed at protecting its status as the world
premier economy.

On Monday, Michael Froman, the US trade representative announced that Washington
would complain to the World Trade Organization (WTO) about GoI rules that
mandate the use of Indian-manufactured solar cells and modules in India's
massive solar energy programme, the largest in the world, much of it in Gujarat.

Playing Catch Up

The US is losing ground and business even with Modi as chief minister, but if he
becomes prime minister, it was reckoned that American businesses would lose
revenue and jobs even more heavily, not just in the solar sector, but across the
board. Gujarat is also slated to be home to one of the two nuclear power plants
forged under the US-India nuclear power deal. Beyond all this, there is massive
potential to build on the two-way trade that has grown four-fold to $100 billion
in the past decade. A business-friendly prime minister could turbo-charge that.

For a country whose much ballyhooed principles haven't exactly prevented it from
getting into bed with a rogues gallery of dictators, monarchs, and princelings,
reaching out to a democratically elected leader who has not been indicted by a
respected (if slow) judicial system was a no-brainer.

Much of these arguments have been taking places in the corridors of Congress and
the State Department where US businesses and corporations are starting to feel
left out of one of the brighter spots in the world economy. Many US lawmakers
and business honchos have long been making this argument, even as countries of
the European Union, China, Australia and others have headed out to Gandhinagar
to pay their respects to the man who could be the next prime minister.

In fact, the US State Department began working on a Modi outreach effort several
months back, but it was disrupted by the Devyani Khobragade spat engineered by
the diplomatic gumshoes and the human rights brigade in Washington. By then, it
was also felt that any US decision to reach out to Modi would be construed as an
endorsement for Modi.

But Washington finally gave the green signal to the US embassy in New Delhi,
which had resumed pressing for a Modi outreach after botching up badly during
the Khobragade flap that made American ambassador Nancy Powell virtually persona
non grata in the MEA.

The US desperately needed to retrieve lost ground -- and public opinion -- in
India, or risk even greater economic and geo-strategic losses in the future. The
poll numbers in India all show the Congress facing a rout and BJP making big
strides. There was also pressure from the Indian-American and NRI community,
among whom Modi has huge support. Clearly, the time had arrived to make good
with the putative BJP-led government in New Delhi.



More Than Symbolism

"After the elections, however, the damage will already have been done. By then,
the US will be unable to escape accusations of opportunism [a line it is already
dangerously close to crossing]," warned Anish Goel, a former White House
official, arguing that a BJP-led win would result in the US facing "a government
made up of unfamiliar officials. Averting such a situation is in the best
interests of both sides."

In fact, Goel argued, on the heels of the December 2013 court ruling that
cleared Modi of involvement in the riots, the US should admit that its earlier
visa decision may have been in error, and invite Modi and other BJP leaders for
a visit. "The symbolism of such an admission and invitation would not be lost on
anyone," he wrote in a Foreign Policy brief. As it turned out, Powell's meeting
with Modi was modest in its scope, with the American ambassador seeking to
downplay the outreach by also meeting Gujarat's opposition leader Shankarsinh
Vaghela to give the impression of evenhandedness.

But Modi seized on the opportunity to lecture her on the Khobragade spat, saying
such "irritants" were best avoided, and reminding the US of its lack of resolve
in bringing the perpetrators of Mumbai 26/11 to justice. Clearly, he was
attempting to be prime ministerial after nearly a decade of suffering Washington
trying to be magisterial.

The big question now is whether the US outreach will be seen by the Indian
public as an endorsement of Modi, and whether it will be a vote-getter for any
BJP-led alliance, given how badly US-India ties have gone downhill under the
Congressled UPA government. ''The impact of the upcoming meeting [between Powell
and Modi] may be greater on the election process itself.

Whatever it may or may not be intended to signal, many will perceive the sit
down as a stamp of approval from America, helping whisk away lingering doubts
that voters -- as well as dissenters in his own party -- may have had about
Modi's acceptance by global allies," Time magazine said in its analysis. Few
doubt that after long years tripping up Modi over the human rights issues,
Washington has suddenly strengthened his hand. Hardly surprising, given its
record.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             643 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                             Mehr News Agency (MNA)

                           December 29, 2012 Saturday

'Ninth of Dey': Despair for US in Iran 'regime change'

LENGTH: 351 words


TEHRAN, Dec. 29 (MNA) - Ninth of Dey (December, 29th, 2009), was the day of
street marches by people in Iranian cities -unprecedented in history- to show
their full support for the Islamic Republic of Iran. Lead by Imam Khomeini, the
Fou nder and former Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iranian people
changed all equations and calculations of imperialist powers in the west, and
during Saddam Hussein's unequal and imposed war (1980-1988), they showed how
mightily they would defend their country and Islam.

 A war purportedly launched for conquering Iran by Iraq's Saddam Hussein, had a
victory for Iranians. Every decade, Western countries, along with US, have
planned and implemented a scheme of enmity toward Iran, their support in 1980s
for Saddam Hussein and inciting him to invade Iran being among them. In 1990s,
University of Tehran events were in line with this trend. In 2000s, a
full-fledged soft war against Iran mounted to overthrow the regime in Iran,
based on plan prescribed by George Soros and his Foundation under the pretext of
election fraud. Iranian people have proved that they would understand and act
better than political elites would do, despite economic hardships. Subsequently,
they have been a sort of surprise for elites and statesmen in the west. Islam in
Iranian society has worked to the fostering of a people who do better and better
against enemies. This was Islamic teachings through which Iranian people handled
the eight-year war successfully in the face of western supports of Saddam
Hussein, or managed victorious in 'Ninth of Dey' (2009) street riots. The US
miscalculated when it supposed that it would overthrow the Iranian regime in
2009. Islamic teachings and measures taken by the authorities and people led to
a situation where the US found itself defeated. Ninth of Dey, 1388 HA (December,
29 , 2009), the day of street marches by people in Iranian cities -unprecedented
in history- to show their full support for the Islamic Republic of Iran. Since
then, the enemy in US and western countries were in despair and the riots came
to an end. SH/EA MNA END

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 399


                        Copyright 2012 Mehr News Agency
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company


                             644 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               New York Observer

                                  May 30, 2005

A Calm and Considered LookAt a Vast, Divisive Presidency

BYLINE: Ted Widmer

SECTION: THE FRONT PAGE; Front Page 8, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2079 words


The Survivor: Bill Clinton in the White House, by John F. Harris. Random House,
504 pages, $29.95.

Presidents move in the polls long after they leave office, and armchair
historians can hold endless conversations about who belongs with the great, the
near great and the mass of lesser mortals. Harry Truman departed the White House
with abysmal ratings, but 50 years later, thanks to a series of engaging books
about his colorful personality, he ranks as one of the most popular Presidents
of the 20th century, revered by Republicans and Democrats alike.

Where Bill Clinton fits into the ebb and flow of history is not yet known. The
very word "history" is still a bit awkward with this extraordinarily mobile man,
moving across the globe at warp speed on behalf of AIDS and tsunami victims and
still moving, despite 13 years of unprecedented exposure, in the hearts of the
American people.

John Harris' important new book is without doubt a sign that history, with all
its plodding seriousness, is catching up to the go-go 90's. That's good news.
For too long, since Mr. Clinton began his improbable run, this supersized
American story has been distorted by extremist views, particularly from the
right, which continues to wipe out forests in its zeal to publish as much
defamatory material on the Clintons as it can find or fabricate.

Neither side will be entirely happy with The Survivor, which is probably just
right. At the end of the day, this is a smart reflection on those mercurial
years from one of Washington's best reporters (importantly, one who came of age
under Mr. Clinton). It's scrupulously researched; it's well-written; and, to a
surprising degree, it's calm -- not an adjective we usually find in Clintonland.

I was there for many of the events Mr. Harris witnessed, perceiving them through
the parallel but quite distinct lens of a speechwriter. It's incredible how
distant it all feels at times -- another century, and another country as well:
We were such a different nation when Mr. Clinton came to Washington that we
almost need a passport to get back to it. But every now and then, I'll discover
a piece of confetti in a suit pocket and realize that parade in Accra or Sofia
or Tegucigalpa really happened.

Not quite a biography, The Survivor is a comprehensive inside portrait of the
Clinton Presidency. As we might expect from a Washington Post reporter, there's
a lot of politics here, the endless give and take with friends and enemies to
push through legislation -- not so different from your average West Wing
episode. There's also a narrative arc, familiar to readers of 19th-century
novels, of a talented protagonist who enters a dangerous city, is beset by
problems of his own making and snares laid by others, survives a near-fatal
crisis and emerges a changed person. There's quite a lot on the Lewinsky crisis,
which Mr. Harris experienced up close. There are also insightful reflections on
the Presidency, the eight years and the man himself.

It was a long eight years, as Mr. Clinton's admirers and detractors can both
safely agree. (There are 76 million pages of documents in Little Rock to prove
it.) It was also an important time of transition, one that we haven't fully come
to grips with yet. Mr. Harris does a good job reminding us of the feel as well
as the facts of those years. And he persuasively asserts that the entire tenor
of the decade-to-be changed when Mr. Clinton forced a reluctant Congress
(including zero Republicans) to adopt his program of fiscal discipline in 1993,
leading to the prosperity that will always provide a sparkly backdrop to the
Clinton story.

That's one of several compliments Mr. Harris pays to Mr. Clinton. The book is
carefully calibrated and avoids emotional extremes, but the grudging respect of
its title becomes clearer by the book's end. Mr. Harris reminds us of the
unpopularity of the courageous decision to bail out the Mexican peso, and steps
back now and then with some astonishment to comment on how much good policy was
enacted. He also admires Mr. Clinton's foreign policy, generally ignored by the
commentariat, and this marks a genuine step forward for The Survivor. There were
obvious early missteps in Somalia and Haiti, and a disastrous failure to
intervene in Rwanda, but Mr. Harris detects growing confidence from Bosnia
onward, as well as a clear international vision for America's importance on the
world stage.

Because he knows the eight years so well, Mr. Harris avoids a pitfall that has
tripped up previous writers -- namely, to interpret the entire administration
through the prism of 1993, when pizza boxes were piled around the White House
and rancorous discussions divided staffers who looked too young for their jobs.
Mr. Harris discerns roughly five major phases -- the frenzy of 1993, the
overreach and disaster of 1994, the recovery of 1995-97, the crisis of 1998 and
the re-recovery of 1999-2000. He notes correctly that Mr. Clinton is the only
President in recent memory -- and perhaps the only one save Lincoln and F.D.R.
-- to enjoy as much popularity at the end of his term as at the beginning.

Given the vastness of Mr. Clinton's Presidency, it's perhaps unfair to expect
Mr. Harris to cover it all. Still, I had the feeling that some areas were
inflated, presumably because of Mr. Harris' access (i.e., the Dick Morris saga),
while others were unjustly neglected. Some major moments and ideas receive scant
attention: the Arafat-Rabin handshake of 1993, the speech to an African-American
church in Memphis, the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Family and Medical Leave
Act, AmeriCorps, Mr. Clinton's friendship with Ron Brown, to list only a few.

In my own not unbiased opinion, more attention could have been paid to the
tangible ways that American lives were made better during those eight years, in
ways ranging from education to crime prevention, job creation and conservation.
It wasn't always the sexiest news, but it was happening every day. And after
going into all of the scandals that dogged the Clinton team (as he should have),
Mr. Harris could have been clearer about stating that no one was ever convicted
of any felony relating to official wrongdoing -- in stark contrast to the
Reagan/Bush years. Hardly anyone noticed, but a few weeks ago, Henry Hyde
expressed doubt about the impeachment trip that he and Tom DeLay took America
on.

Surprisingly, Mr. Harris neglects some big-ticket items like the Good Friday
Agreement, which changed Northern Ireland forever. Or North Korea, where Mr.
Clinton and his team negotiated a complex agreement that wasn't perfect, but was
indisputably better than our current broken diplomacy (at last count, North
Korea may have up to six nukes that didn't exist in the 1990's, with more on the
way). A bit more on Mr. Clinton's unusual standing with world leaders, and his
almost superhuman capacity to goad enemies into making peace with each other
(usually by keeping them awake with him, past the point of normal human
endurance), would have made this a fuller book. It would also have provided a
public service by reminding Americans that there once was a time when Presidents
did this sort of thing: The Bush administration's next peace conference will be
its first.

Mr. Harris is simply wrong about terrorism. He's usually the master of his
material, and confident whether addressing Mr. Clinton's strengths or
weaknesses. But here he seems unsure of himself, and unpersuasive when he argues
that it was ultimately Mr. Clinton's fault that few heeded his very vocal
warnings about Osama bin Laden and other terrorists. It was his fault for
warning us? As I recall, the press corps was oblivious, and the Republican
Congress simply opposed anything Mr. Clinton proposed. Then, after George W.
Bush became President, when the G.O.P. had a chance to do something about
terrorism, they slashed counterterrorism funding, ignored intelligence
concerning Al Qaeda and chased after chimeras like a national missile-defense
system.

I wish Mr. Harris had looked at another area of accomplishment. In 1992, the
year of the Rodney King riots, the United States was a racially polarized
nation. In 2000, that was no longer the case, and we don't have to look far for
the reason: There wasn't a week in his Presidency that Bill Clinton didn't
address in some way the unfinished legacy of the civil-rights movement. Black
Americans understood from the start that a President was speaking to them with a
level of intelligence and sustained commitment that they had never heard before,
and are not likely to hear again until we elect an African-American President. I
vividly remember a small ceremony that President Clinton held to restore the
honorable discharge of a black soldier who had been unjustly cashiered a century
ago. There was no media coverage, no political gain -- he did it simply because
it felt right.

That leads to a larger point, which is that Mr. Harris' clinical detachment --
necessary for a print journalist -- can lead him to ignore the mystical bond
that united Mr. Clinton with the American people, and which still drives his
powerful appeal. Does anyone doubt that he would defeat his successor if the
22nd Amendment were repealed? Mr. Harris excels at the inside hardball of
politics -- the chin music. But he doesn't always convey the other kind of
music, the theatrics and laughter and empathy that Mr. Clinton did so well. In
the last century, only F.D.R., Kennedy and Reagan can touch him for charisma.
The Irish always understood this about him, and somewhere in my desk I have a
crumpled piece of paper that Seamus Heaney gave me during a Clinton visit to
Dublin, quoting an ancient bit of Irish poetry. "The music of what happens,"
wrote Finn McCool, "that is the most beautiful music of them all." Bill Clinton
could hear those celestial harmonies; most of us cannot.

A great anecdote in The Survivor has Mr. Clinton telling Robert Rubin, the
Secretary of the Treasury, to "get out and talk to real people." Mr. Rubin
responded, "Am I a real person?" -- to which Mr. Clinton answered, "No." Despite
his heroic command of his subject, Mr. Harris retains a little Beltway unreality
-- aware of the unhealthy cynicism of the White House press briefing room, but
not entirely able to free himself from it. He knows that Mr. Clinton was "a
marvelously entertaining president," "always loading his plate a little higher
at life's buffet." But he can't quite allow himself to surrender his suspicion.
Oddly, very little of Mr. Clinton's own version of history, copiously available
in My Life, makes it into The Survivor.

Obviously, no one can write a detailed political history and a potboiler at the
same time. And it's unfair to ask Mr. Harris to relinquish the skepticism that
reporters carry around like a notepad. But the very excellence of Mr. Harris'
effort creates nostalgia for a book that doesn't yet exist -- one that will tell
Bill Clinton's story with less sound and fury, and more Faulkner. One thinks a
little of All the King's Men, recently filmed in New Orleans, and one longs for
a latter-day Robert Penn Warren, or Edwin O'Connor, or A.J. Liebling. Sin,
perseverance, redemption -- isn't that what America is all about?

Still, that wistful note shouldn't detract from Mr. Harris' achievement. He has
set the bar high for all who come after him, and written a big book that's
worthy of his talents and his subject. To quote the final line of All the King's
Men, he has taken us "out of history into history and the awful responsibility
of Time."

History may be an argument without end, as Mr. Harris reminds us. Bill Clinton
certainly is. Americans will continue to debate the complex man who led them for
eight years at the end of the 20th century, for the simple reason that he'll be
an ex-President for much longer than he was President. He'll loom especially
large as 2008 approaches and the full damage of President Bush's domestic and
foreign policies becomes clear. We will still find reasons to hate him and to
love him, according to our needs. But thanks to this book, there's now a sounder
basis to the argument, and some hope that the argument might even turn into a
conversation.

Ted Widmer directs the C.V. Starr Center for the Study of the American
Experience at Washington College. From 1997 to 2000, he was director of
speechwriting at the National Security Council.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The New York Observer, L.P.


                             645 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                The Denver Post

                     January 8, 2003 Wednesday 1ST EDITION

Fest takes comedy seriously

BYLINE: Dick Kreck

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A-02

LENGTH: 612 words


Laff riot. The U.S. Comedy Arts Festival in Aspen is a lot of  laughs and, no
joke, some serious stuff.

Mike Myers is this year's big winner of the AFI Star Award,  following in the
comedic footsteps of Steve Martin, Jerry Seinfeld,  Robin Williams and Albert
Brooks.

Myers' coronation will be moderated by James Lipton, the unctuous  host of
'Inside the Actor's Studio.' This ought to be rich.  Lipton's never met a
celebrity backside he wouldn't smooch, and  Myers has never met a gasbag he
couldn't puncture. Myers is best  known as the creator of 'Wayne's World' and as
the  star-producer-screenwriter of the Austin Powers movies.

Other highlights of the festival, taking place Feb. 26-March 2:

A tribute to filmmaker Kevin Smith ('Clerks,' 'Mallrats,'  'Chasing Amy').

'Off the Page,' performances and readings from playwrights  Christopher Shinn,
Stephen Adly Guirgis, Megan Mostyn-Brown, Julian  Shepard, Jonathan March
Sherman and Annie Weisman.

'J Edgar,' the musical about the former head of the FBI, gets  special attention
with a live performance by Harry Shearer (yes,  the genius behind 'The
Simpsons') and Tom Leopold, along with  Kelsey Grammer, John Goodman, Michael
McKean, Nancy Cartwright,  Tress MacNeille and Judith Owens.

'Mr. Show: Hooray for America,' a live performance of the HBO  series, featuring
Bob Odenkirk, David Cross, Joe Rogan, Julia  Sweeney, Norm Macdonald and Kathy
Griffin.

Tickets for the festival are available at www.hbocomedyfestival.com  or
1-800-778-4633.

A fan on 'The Fan'

He might want to buff up his crystal ball before he goes.

Sports talk show host 'Lou From Littleton' is jumping from KOA to  KKFN ('The
Fan'). He'll host the 5:30-9 a.m. shift Mondays  through Fridays, beginning Jan.
20. He replaces Sandy Clough,  moving to the 6-9 p.m. shift.

His big forecast this year: 'I am picking the Broncos (to be) in  the Super
Bowl, and once they get to the Super Bowl they will once  again be world
champs!'

Pouring forth

There are three finalists for the seventh annual Beerdrinker of the  Year
competition.

Yes, it's a dream job.

John Ahrens of Mount Laurel, N.J., John Marioni of Bothell, Wash.,  and Ray
McCoy of Clemmons, N.C., will face a panel of learned  judges on Jan. 18 at the
Wynkoop Brewing Co.

The award is based not on consumption but knowledge, brewing vision  and
commitment to the brewer's art.

In real life, the threesome are a sales director, a computer  consultant and 'a
high-tech operative.' Privately, they are all  about beer.

Around Denver

Cookie alert, cookie alert: Girl Scout cookies on sale beginning  Saturday. It's
no small cookies. Last year, troops earned $ 1.35  million. a Look in their
closets: The Colorado History Museum  offering behind-the-scenes tours of
artifacts, photographs and  documents stored in the museum's basement.
Reservations for the  Thursday and Saturday tours may be made at 303-866-4693. a
How can  we miss you: Cher, who vowed in August she was on her farewell  tour,
back at the Pepsi Center on March 17. a 'Don't Try This at  Home,' scheduled
Thursday night at the Fillmore, has been  canceled. a The Denver School of the
Arts hosts its biannual film  festival, featuring work by student moviemakers
from grades 6 to  12, at 6:30 p.m. Thursday and Friday at Byers Building, 150 S.

  Pearl St. a Quotable: 'You can pretend to be serious; you can't  pretend to be
witty.' - Sacha Guitry

Dick Kreck's column appears Monday, Wednesday and Friday. He may be  reached at
303-820-1456 or DKreck@denverpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 08, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Myers

TYPE: COLUMN

                        Copyright 2003 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             646 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           October 23, 2001, Tuesday

PAKISTAN PREVENTS ISLAMIC LEADER FROM PROTESTING U.S. USE OF BASE

BYLINE: BY STEVE LEVINE

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1

LENGTH: 26 words


Pakistan government bars Islamic leader Qazi Hussain Ahmed from holding protests
near air base US is using for air strikes on Afghanistan; drawing (M)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             647 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                          October 31, 2001, Wednesday

YEMEN IS EAGER TO REMAIN A U.S. ALLY

BYLINE: BY YAROSLAV TROFIMOV

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3

LENGTH: 23 words


Government of Yemen, apparently eager to be seen as US ally, cracks down on
terror suspects and anti-American demonstrations; map (M)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Map

              Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             648 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

IRAN'S ISLAMIC LEADERS FACE SUDDEN UNREST SINCE TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY HUGH POPE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1

LENGTH: 174 words


Rallies for Iranian national soccer team since Sept 11 terrorist attacks in US
have turned into demonstrations against Iran's hard-line Islamic regime, with
chants of 'We love you, America' replacing the customary 'Death to America';
demonstrations have occurred in several cites and involved thousands of people;
nascent movement is inspired by Reza Pahlavi, 41, son of late Shah; Pahlavi, who
lives in Maryland, advocates nonviolent civil disobedience and espouses secular
democracy; young Iranians who had not previously heard of Pahlavi say he speaks
with their own words; drawing (L)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Diagram

              Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             649 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            May 22, 2002, Wednesday

PROTESTERS THRONG BERLIN ON EVE OF BUSH SUMMIT

BYLINE: BY WILLIAM BOSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1

LENGTH: 45 words


Thousands of demonstrators take to streets of Berlin (Germany) in protest of US
foreign policy, as President Bush prepares to meet with German Chancellor
Gerhard Schroder; protestors oppose war on Iraq, which German officials call
necessity in war against terrorism (M)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             650 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            August 30, 2002, Friday

THERE, THERE, MR DODD, THERE'S NO THERE THERE

BYLINE: BY MARY ANASTASIA O'GRADY

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 3

LENGTH: 57 words


Mary Anastasia O'Grady, Americas column, dismisses grandstanding Sen Christopher
Dodd's stated concerns about what he deems inadequate US response to coup d'etat
that briefly ousted Venezuelan Pres Hugo Chavez in April; finds cause for
concern in Dodd's 'blind fidelity to a tyrant who tried to silence his
opposition with violence' (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

              Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             651 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

THE ANTIWAR ANTI-SEMITES

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL LERNER

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4

LENGTH: 42 words


Tikkun magazine editor Michael Lerner article notes he was banned from speaking
at antiwar rally in San Francisco by ANSWER anti-war group because group
allegedly didn't want 'pro-Israel' speaker at rally; accuses ANSWER of
anti-Semitism; drawing (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

GRAPHIC: Diagram

              Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             652 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            March 5, 2003, Wednesday

OF CORN, CRISIS AND CAPITOL HILL

BYLINE: BY DAVID LUHNOW

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 3

LENGTH: 29 words


Article describes why Mexico and its farmers are having doubts about North
American Free Trade Agreement, as protests against US agricultural subsidies
grows; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Photograph

              Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             653 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            April 2, 2003, Wednesday

A REAL 'DIE-IN'

BYLINE: BY BRUCE ANDERSON

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1

LENGTH: 20 words


Letter refers briefly not to any specific article but to recent 'die-in'
anti-war demonstration in New York City (S)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: LETTER

              Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             654 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            June 4, 2003, Wednesday

GLOBAL BUSINESS BRIEFS

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 3

LENGTH: 33 words


Bechtel Group Inc is mobilizing to fend off an army of protesters; Bechtel has
been the target of several protest groups that held street demonstrations around
the US against the war in Iraq (S)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             656 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            July 10, 2003, Thursday

THE STREETS OF HONG KONG

BYLINE: BY JAMES A KELLY

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3

LENGTH: 72 words


Commentary by Asst Sec of State James A Kelly welcomes Hong Kong government's
decision to cancel scheduled vote on antisubversion legislation as a sign of
respect for will of people of Hong Kong, some 500,000 of whom turned out for
July 1 protest march in opposition to legislation; finds protest march suggests
need for to enlarge institutions of democracy in order to improve communication
between government and populace (M)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

              Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             657 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           September 26, 2003, Friday

FOR SALVADOR'S FLORES, YANKEE BAITING NO MAS

BYLINE: BY MARY ANASTASIA O'GRADY

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 3

LENGTH: 50 words


Mary Anastasia O'Grady, Americas column, applauds Salvadoran Pres Francisco
Flores for standing up amid anti-US street demonstrations in San Salvador
following Sept 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and declaring his solidarity with US
and civilization;; recounts recent interview with Flores; drawing (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

GRAPHIC: Diagram

              Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             658 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           October 16, 2003, Thursday

LATIN AMERICA'S SEASON OF DISCONTENT

BYLINE: BY DAVID LUHNOW

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1

LENGTH: 33 words


Public protest in Latin America is growing more violent and anti-American and is
starting to limit policy choices for leaders in region; demonstrations in
Bolivia and Honduras noted; graph (M)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Graph

              Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             659 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           March 31, 2004, Wednesday

STARK ROVING MAD

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1

LENGTH: 35 words


Editorial criticizes 'pro-immigration thugs'--or National People's Action--who
surrounded Washington (DC) home of White House adviser Karl Rove by busload to
protest Bush Administration's immigration policy

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL

              Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             660 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           February 28, 2005, Monday

HOW LEBANESE DRIVE TO OUST THE SYRIANS FINALLY CAUGHT FIRE

BYLINE: BY BILL SPINDLE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1

LENGTH: 80 words


Sudden movement in Lebanon against long-standing Syrian occupation was prompted
by car-bomb assassination of former Prime Min Rafik Harriri and coincides with
aggressive US push to promote democracy in Middle East; Lebanese opposition has
drawn international support from US eager for examples of Democratic change and
new ways to put pressure on Syria; Lebanese opposition leaders increasingly
frame their movement as part of larger democratic trend in region; map, drawing
(L)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Combination

              Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             661 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                           September 2, 2005, Friday

RUSSIA COURTS UZBEKISTAN

BYLINE: BY ALAN CULLISON

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 3

LENGTH: 37 words


Russia has sought to strengthen ties with Uzbekistan as US and European
criticism of Uzbekistan's violent suppression of demonstration in Andijan in May
has strained Uzbekistan's relations with West; chronology, photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Combination

              Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             662 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            January 16, 2006, Monday

PAKISTAN ATTACK'S POLITICAL FALLOUT TESTS A US ALLY

BYLINE: BY ZAHID HUSSAIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 6

LENGTH: 50 words


Thousands of people in nearby tribal areas and across Pakistan mount
anti-American demonstrations following news reports of apparent US missile
attack in Damadola, village on Afghan border, that killed at least 18 people;
attack targeted al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahari, who was not among dead (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             663 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                            March 2, 2006, Thursday

PAKISTANI PROTESTS WILL TARGET MUSHARRAF'S RULE AS BUSH VISITS

BYLINE: BY PETER WONACOTT

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 5

LENGTH: 26 words


Pakistan is bracing for large nationwide protests against Pres Pervez Musharraf
that are timed to coincide with Pres Bush's visit to country; graph (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Graph

              Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             664 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         WALL STREET JOURNAL ABSTRACTS

                             April 24, 2006, Monday

NEPAL MATTERS

BYLINE: BY LEON J WEIL

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3

LENGTH: 85 words


Leon J Weil commentary suggests US and friendly governments should urge Nepalese
union of political parties to respond favorably to King Gyanendra's offer to
cede power by forming government-in-waiting with mandate to immediately
negotiate details of transfer of power; security forces must see their role as
protecting people and being managed by civil government; parties must show they
have learned from earlier mistakes; Gyanendra must accept that his role does not
fit needs of 21st-century Nepal; photo

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

GRAPHIC: Photograph

              Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             665 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Democracy Activists Disappointed in Bush;
Mideast Tour Seen as Failure To Revive Earlier Emphasis; Economic Woes Grow
Urgent

BYLINE: Ellen Knickmeyer; Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 1141 words


CAIRO, Jan. 16 -- President Bush on Wednesday ended a Middle East tour that
political activists saw as lacking the strong calls for democratization made
earlier in his administration, disappointing those once encouraged by the
statements of American leaders. In Egypt and elsewhere, people are growing more
concerned with food than with rights.

"Where is democracy now?" demanded Hibba Hanaty, a 42-year-old homemaker, at a
political rally early this week in Cairo that drew only dozens of demonstrators,
instead of the thousands who turned out in 2005, when the United States was
pushing authoritarian Arab governments toward free elections.

Riot police at the rally, their transparent face shields tilted up on their
helmets, outnumbered demonstrators. Some of the officers leaned in, curiously,
to hear Hanaty's words.

"Everything is so expensive," Hanaty said. She cradled a toddler, her son, whose
life has encompassed the rise and fall of Egypt's democracy movement.

On Wednesday, after discussions with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak at the Red
Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, Bush commended him for progress. "You have taken
steps toward economic openness . . . and political reforms," Bush said.

But Hisham Kassem, an Egyptian political activist who last year received a U.S.
National Endowment for Democracy award, was left dispirited by Bush's tour. The
year 2005  "was the best year in my life, politically. . . . Our hopes were way
up there," Kassem said. "But -- it was just another story."

Anger grew in his voice. "Bush, as far as American foreign policy vis-a-vis
democracy, civil rights, is right back to square one," Kassem added. "This trip
marks it."

As hopes for democratic change fade in the Middle East, demands for economic
improvements have grown stronger. Inflation, caused in part by rising oil
prices, is making life harder for the poor in much of the region.

Egyptian workers launched more than 300 strikes over the past year to demand
higher wages or lower prices. Unlike the political protests now, the wage
strikes have drawn thousands of people, sometimes tens of thousands.

In 2005, Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice helped create as much of a
democratic fervor as the Middle East had ever seen, democracy activists said.
Rice vowed support for "the democratic aspirations of all people."

Arab governments and peoples took notice. Egypt, where Mubarak has held power
for 2Â½ decades, allowed other candidates to challenge him in the 2005
presidential election. Observers regarded the first rounds of parliamentary
elections that year as fair.

But Islamic parties shocked many with strong showings in 2005 and 2006 elections
in the Palestinian territories, Egypt and Lebanon.

Angered by U.S. policy toward Iraq and the Palestinians, Arab activists never
gave Bush much credit for his democratization pressure. But they noticed when it
slackened.

Middle East democracy activists these days say they wonder whether the United
States has returned to the formula that Rice renounced in 2005: valuing the
stability of autocratic Arab governments over the uncertainty of elected ones.

"We're already believers in what we're doing. But is there a partner there? Or
are we alone in this now?" asked Rola Dashti, a candidate in Kuwait's 2006
elections, the first in which women there could vote, in a telephone interview
from Kuwait City. Bush met with Dashti and other female political leaders in
Kuwait during his trip.

On Wednesday in Sharm el-Sheikh, Bush made no public mention of Ayman Nour, the
politician jailed by Egypt after he challenged Mubarak in the 2005 election,
finishing a distant second. Nour's supporters accuse the government of trumping
up the charges -- forging election petitions -- that sent Nour to prison.

Bush also made no public mention of human rights in Egypt, a country where
complaints of police torture remain widespread.

In parliamentary elections this summer, riot police openly blocked voters in
some opposition areas from entering polling stations. Authorities jailed
Egyptian newspaper editors and bloggers for criticizing Mubarak, 79, or
speculating on the state of his health.

Activists also accuse Mubarak's National Democratic Party of manipulating
constitutional changes since the 2005 elections to ensure that only his party
can field a viable candidate for president. Mubarak's son, Gamal, is seen as his
most likely successor.

Bush spoke more forcefully on human rights while in the United Arab Emirates.
Egyptians saw references to Egypt, and Nour, when Bush said, "You cannot build
trust when you hold an election where opposition candidates find themselves
harassed or in prison.

"You cannot expect people to believe in the promise of a better future when they
are jailed for peacefully petitioning their government," he added. "And you
cannot stand up a modern and confident nation when you do not allow people to
voice their legitimate criticisms."

But activists said Bush was settling for less when he declined in the same
speech to repeat the strong demands of the past for free elections --
emphasizing instead the importance of civic institutions such as universities
and places of worship.

With Egypt's political opposition crushed since 2005, only Islamic movements,
which already maintain networks of clinics and other aid for Egypt's poor, are
positioned to exploit the economic unrest if they choose, said Kassem, the
democracy activist.

Egypt "is failing economically," he said. "It's a question of time before there
is a disaster, and when that happens, the only alternative in front of the
people is the Brotherhood," he said, referring to the Muslim Brotherhood, which
is officially outlawed but tolerated within limits.

"This is what will shake the Mubarak regime," Kassem added. "Not the
politicians."

Many here remember one central fact about the breaking point of the poor:
Egyptians have risen up by the millions only once in recent decades -- in 1977,
over rising bread prices.

On Monday night, protester Abdel Aziz el-Hosseiny thought back on the crowds of
2005, and 1977, as the few dozen other demonstrators with him melted away.

As a college student in 1977, Hosseiny watched as homemakers and shopkeepers
joined students and workers to force the government to roll back bread prices.

In 2005, he was a leader of Egypt's democracy coalition. He watched the
coalition draw thousands during the height of international pressure, then
watched it all fall apart because of government reprisals and internal
divisions.

"I'm hopeful it will all come back," Hosseiny said as the only other remaining
protester -- a man dressed as the Grim Reaper -- made his exit. Riot police, the
last to go, got into blue vans.

"But not only to change the bread prices," Hosseiny said. "To change the
government."

Staff writer Michael Abramowitz in Sharm el-Sheikh contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; By Amr Nabil -- Associated Press; Protesters in Cairo show their
anger toward President Bush at a small rally Monday with signs saying,
"Egyptians refuse your visit." The hope for democracy in the Middle East, which
U.S. officials strongly encouraged in 2005, has largely been supplanted in Egypt
by concerns over rising prices.
IMAGE; By Nasser Nasser -- Associated Press; President Bush in Sharm el-Sheikh
with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, whom Bush commended for progress.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             666 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

Enter China's 'media aircraft carrier';
Revamp to China's four key media arms will boost its global presence

BYLINE: Peh Shing Huei, China Bureau Chief

LENGTH: 864 words


BEIJING: China has relaunched its four key official media arms this month,
introducing changes which analysts described as unprecedented in scale.

A whopping 45 billion yuan (S $9.4 billion) is believed to have been pumped by
the Chinese government into the mega project which has been tagged by observers
as China's 'media aircraft carrier'.

China National Radio, China Central Television (CCTV), People's Daily and Xinhua
news agency have all undergone changes aimed at boosting China's global presence
as well as improving content to draw a bigger domestic audience.

The biggest change is Xinhua's addition of a TV wing - in English, no less - and
broadcasting of news bulletins in Europe.

The state news agency announced late last month that it has inked a deal to
screen 90 minutes of news daily in European supermarkets, as well as outside
Chinese embassies across Europe.

Xinhua is also believed to be spearheading a move to build a 'Chinese CNN', a
round-the-clock international news channel.

All this came after China National Radio completed a revamp that saw its news
content bumped up from 40 per cent of air time to 75 per cent. It also
introduced half-hourly news in briefs.

People's Daily, the staid mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), also
increased its pages from 16 to 20 earlier this month, promising to have more
news and commentaries rather than official propaganda.

'Gradually, we will win over the people,' said People's Daily chief Xie Guoming.

State broadcaster CCTV is attempting to broaden the scope of its daily 7pm news
programme by doubling its international content to about eight minutes.

All this, according to reports, is aimed at enabling China to wield its soft
power more effectively in the global media arena where Beijing's views and
positions on issues are often ignored.

Also, the official media need to be more informative and credible as citizen
journalism grows on the Internet and other news gadgets.

But analysts are not optimistic of success.

'The state media will never satisfy the Chinese people no matter how they
change,' said political blogger Zhao Jing, who goes by the pen name of Michael
Anti. 'It's still propaganda at the end of the day. Chinese today do not want to
waste their time reading propaganda.'

It is near impossible to buy a copy of People's Daily off newstands in Beijing
because it is so unpopular that vendors do not bother to carry it.

Researcher David Bandurski wrote in the China Media Project website of the
University of Hong Kong, where he works, that it is a good idea not to 'hold
your breath' about CCTV's changes, which are likely to be cosmetic.

Observers are sceptical about China's 'going out' or 'zou chu qu' media policy
too.

'I think it will largely be a failure and a waste of Chinese taxpayers' money. I
am very sceptical that the Chinese media 'going out' strategy can be modelled on
Al-Jazeera,' said analyst Li Mingjiang, who is familiar with the China media
scene.

'The propaganda bosses in Beijing won't allow such freedom. There are too many
'sensitive' issues that the 'going out' Chinese media will have their hands and
feet significantly restrained, if not bound.

'They may enjoy more freedom in reporting world affairs, but when it comes to
domestic Chinese issues, the propaganda regulators will continue to be the
dictator. Yet, China issues are the area where the Chinese media are expected to
contend with the Western media.'

Said China media analyst Lye Liang Fook of Singapore's East Asian Institute:
'Credibility is the biggest hurdle which China must cross. This 'going out'
strategy in my view is significant and the Chinese side (particularly the state
media players) knows the importance of getting its footing right.

'The challenge is to establish credibility - how to be perceived as providing an
alternative voice of looking at developments in China and elsewhere around the
world without the official stigma.'

But Mr Zhao observed that China's move to have a louder voice internationally
has started working in its favour. Comparing the fallout from the recent
Xinjiang riots and last year's Tibet protests, he believed that the government's
global image was less battered over Xinjiang.

'So far, only the Turkish government has been critical of the Chinese over its
handling of the Xinjiang riots. The US has not said a thing,' he said. 'On the
Tibet issue, almost every Western government slammed the Chinese authorities.'

shpeh@sph.com.sg

PROMISE OF CHANGE

'Gradually, we will win over the people.'

People's Daily chief Xie Guoming. The paper increased its pages this month,
promising more news and commentaries rather than official propoganda

IT'S STILL PROPAGANDA

'The state media will never satisfy the Chinese people no matter how they
change. It's still propaganda at the end of the day. Chinese today do not want
to waste their time reading propaganda.'

Political blogger Zhao Jing, who goes by the pen name of Michael Anti

A SIGNIFICANT STRATEGY

'This 'going out' strategy, in my view, is significant and the Chinese side
(particularly the state media players) knows the importance of getting its
footing right.'

China media analyst Lye Liang Fook of Singapore's East Asian Institute

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             667 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                             March 13, 2015 Friday
                              CourierMail Edition

ROVE IS ROVING STATESIDE AGAIN

SECTION: CONFIDENTIAL; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 112  words


ROVE McManus is about to give the US market another shot, but this time in the
game show arena.

After a lukewarm debut on US television with talk show Rove LAand a failed turn
hosting Riot, the US version of Slide Show, the Aussie star has landed a new
gig.

McManus will host Lie Detectors, a comedy panel show to air on cable on the Game
Show Network.

The show boasts it will be extremely interactive with the studio audience. In
each episode three comedians will tell an outlandish story, but only one will
tell the truth.

The audience members then guess which comedian is telling the truth.The move
comes for McManus after a stint back in Australia on Channel 10's The Project.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             668 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                             March 13, 2015 Friday
                               Advertiser Edition

Game on US, says Rove

BYLINE: WITH ANTIMO IANNELLA, ANNA VLACH AND MATT GILBERTSON

SECTION: CONFIDENTIAL; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 81  words


ROVE McManus is set to give the US market another shot, but this time in the
game-show arena.

After a lukewarm debut on US television with talk-show Rove LA and a failed turn
hosting Riot, the US version of Slide Show, the Aussie star has landed a new
gig. Rove will be the host of Lie Detectors, a comedy panel show to air on the
Game Show Network.The show is interactive with the studio audience and in each
episode comedians will tell an out-there story, but only one will tell the
truth.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             669 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 3, 2004

Punk and disorderly is best cure for Boredom

LENGTH: 396 words


* The spirit of '77 is alive and well in Blackburn with punk popsters Boredom
turning back the years as JOHN ANSON discovered. . .

IT has taken them nine years but pop punksters Boredom have finally got round to
doing what their fans have long hoped they would do -- and released a debut
album.

Menthols and Cider available on the Noize Anoize label will be launched tonight
at a special party at the Charles Napier in Blackburn the band's hometown.

One member of the band can't be there -- but he has a pretty good excuse -- he's
currently serving with the army in Iraq!

For lead guitarist Andy (known as Pee Wee to his mates) who is a medic in the
Territorial Army received his call up papers just before the album was recorded
and has spent the last six months in Iraq leaving the band to carry on without
him.

Boredom UK was originally formed in the summer of 1995 by a group of mates who
were disillusioned with the current music scene and started rehearsing cover
versions of classic punk songs including the Buzzcocks' Boredom from where the
band took their name..

All of the members had played in punk bands around East Lancashire for a number
of years both separately and together. Over the next six years the band had
several changes in line up and played numerous well received local gigs before
splitting up with original members Ian and Dani forming a Ramones' tribute band
Pinhead.

Encouraged by Blackburn-based promoters Noize Anoize Boredom re-formed dropping
the UK bit of their name. A debut EP was released in April and the band has
supported the UK Subs and Menace plus plating at Arts in the Park this summer.

For the recording of the album original member Stevie returned on bass and the
band are continuing as a four piece until the return of Pee Wee from the Gulf
when Boredom will be back in full force.

At tonight's launch party Boredom will play tracks from their new album and
their will also be sets from Hope and Slash Monkeys.

* Noize Anoize is also promoting two gigs in Preston with transport available.
Tomorrow night The Bobby Dazzlers Hope Free Fallin Camels Riot to Us and Flannel
will play The Mitre Tavern on Moor Lane. Then next Saturday the same venue will
host Boredom The Exorsisters The Slash Monkeys and Plegm Fatales. For details
contact Julie on 07791 901621.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


                             670 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday

International: Obama uses UN speech to condemn extremism: President pays tribute
to murdered US diplomat: Seeks to reset relations with Arab world after riots

BYLINE: Julian Borger, New York

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 703 words


Barack Obama yesterday sought to reset US relations with the Arab world in the
wake of anti-American riots triggered by an amateur video insulting the prophet
Muhammad that led to the death of the US ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens.

The president used his speech to the UN general assembly - expected to be his
last major foreign policy address before the November elections - to pay a
personal tribute to Stevens, highlighting the murdered diplomat's passion for
Arab culture and support for democracy, and presenting it as a model for US-Arab
relations.

In a speech in Cairo three years ago, Obama promised a "new beginning" in the
relationship between his country and the Islamic world. But that relationship is
at its lowest point since the start of the Arab spring as a result of a YouTube
video clip made by an Egyptian-American insulting the prophet Muhammad.

The crudely made 14-minute clip went viral over the summer, triggering furious
anti-American demonstrations across the Middle East and the wider Islamic world.

Obama balanced condemnation of the "crude and disgusting" video, with a
denunciation of the violence that it sparked and a demand for the new Arab
governments to do more to defend US diplomats.

"I have made it clear that the United States government had nothing to do with
this video, and I believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our
common humanity," Obama said. "It is an insult not only to Muslims, but to
America as well . . . We are home to Muslims who worship across our country."

In his half-hour UN address, Obama also restated the US position on the Iran
nuclear programme, that there was still time for diplomacy, but not "unlimited
time", and called for the emergence of a new, democratic and inclusive
government in Syria.

However, he did not offer any new ideas about how the international community
should help attain that goal, or how the deadlock in the security council over
Syria might be broken.

Earlier, the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, had issued an unusually stern
denouncement of security council inaction over Syria, which he called "a
regional calamity with global ramifications".

Obama rejected calls from Arab and other Islamic leaders for the YouTube video
that sparked anti-American riots to be somehow banned, pointing to US
constitutional protections of free speech and the technical impossibility of
controlling such broadcasts.

"(In) 2012, at a time when anyone with a cell phone can spread offensive views
around the world with the click of a button, the notion that we can control the
flow of information is obsolete. The question, then, is how we respond. And on
this we must agree: there is no speech that justifies mindless violence," he
said, and he criticised double standards in the protection of religion in the
Middle East.

"The future must not belong to those who slander the prophet of Islam. Yet to be
credible, those who condemn that slander must also condemn the hate we see when
the image of Jesus Christ is desecrated, churches are destroyed, or the
Holocaust is denied," the president said.

He also made clear his dissatisfaction with the reaction of some Arab
governments to the wave of anti-American riots. US officials have singled out
the Egyptian president, Mohamed Morsi, in this regard.

"If we are serious about upholding these ideals, it will not be enough to put
more guards in front of an embassy; or to put out statements of regret, and wait
for the outrage to pass. If we are serious about those ideals, we must speak
honestly about the deeper causes of this crisis," he said.

Obama expressed gratitude to the government and people of Libya, after
pro-American protesters seized control of the bases of the extremist militias
implicated in the attacks on the US consulate in Benghazi. But he made it clear
Washington did not believe all the perpetrators had been caught, and left open
the option of taking direct action.

"The attacks on our civilians in Benghazi were attacks on America. We are
grateful for the assistance we received from the Libyan government and the
Libyan people. And there should be no doubt that we will be relentless in
tracking down the killers and bringing them to justice," the president said.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             671 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                          November 18, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

FEMALE ROBOCOP, CHILLING NEW FACE OF POLICE IN BRITAIN;
PARIS CARNAGE: FORTRESS WEMBLEY

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 706 words


SHE is the new face of British policing.

Armed to the teeth and sporting military fatigues and a combat helmet, the
officer is part of a counter-terrorism unit unveiled at Wembley last night.

The elite Scotland Yard squad arrived in huge armoured vehicles to throw a ring
of steel around the 80,000 fans watching England beat France.

The marksmen were also toting their new lightweight, semi-automatic SIG 516
rifle. The 130-strong unit has been developing new tactics with UK special
forces, including abseiling from helicopters and tackling rampaging gunmen. They
have been trained to shoot for the head instead of the usual target, the chest.

They came out of the shadows in the wake of the massacre of 129 people in Paris
on Friday. The heightened terror threat was confirmed last night when another
friendly - between Germany and the Netherlands - was called off very late
because of a 'concrete' bomb www.threat.No risks were taken because three of the
seven Paris suicide bombers had targeted a fixture at the Stade de France
between France and Germany. Last One night's match began with English and French
fans uniting to sing France's national anthem, La Marseillaise.

One expert described the counter-terrorism officers at Wembley as 'effectively
SAS officers in police uniform'. Amid some of the tightest security ever seen at
a sporting fixture, they took up key positions around the ground.

Many of the officers chose to cover their faces because they sometimes work
undercover.

Their new weapon was selected to boost the power of police to respond to armed
threats with increased accuracy while allowing them to move in confined spaces.

Their distinctive Jankel vans were last seen on the streets of London during the
2011 riots.

The US trucks are effectively armoured vehicles, with huge amounts of space for
officers and equipment.

Commenting on their weapons, firearms expert Mike Yardley said: 'I have not seen
these on the streets of London before. It is a carbine [light] version of a
military assault rifle. It could be used to engage targets up to 100 metres away
and is highly accurate. It is an ideal weapon for the Met.' Another expert
added: 'These officers work hand in glove with special forces, training with
them week in, week out.

'The goal is for them to work side by side, sharing weapons, ammunition and
tactics to defeat our most dangerous threats.' There is concern that there are
not enough firearms officers to counter a similar threat to Paris and they that
could be outgunned by militants with battlefield weapons.

But senior officers say they are confident their officers can handle any threat,
including a gang of marauding suicide bombers armed with AK-47s.

This summer they held an exercise in which assault riflewielding gunmen attacked
a Tube station and took dozens of people hostage.

It demonstrated a new stage in British policing tactics in which officers
abandoned 'contain and negotiate' in favour of an aggressive attack.

Officers were seen using ballistic shields of the kind used in Paris to directly
confront the gunmen within minutes.

The photographs of heavilyarmed officers are far removed from the traditional
Dixon of Dock Green image of the British bobby.

And they will raise fears of a move toward an increasingly paramilitary-style of
law enforcement - and of opening a gap between police and public.

But police chiefs insist that they must counter increasingly highly trained
attackers who care little for anyone's life, including their own.

In America, there has been controversy over the sale of surplus army equipment
to police forces, including tanks, armoured cars and heavy weaponry.

A Met spokesman said: 'The SIG 516 is a weapon which is widely used across the
country and was selected after an intensive evaluation process, where the
firearm was subjected to extensive testing under carefully monitored and
controlled conditions.

'The rifle brings improvements to the Met's capability to respond to armed
threats, through improved accuracy and ease of handling in confined spaces, for
example in vehicles.' The unit has trained alongside special forces to respond
to assaults such as the Mumbai attacks and the 2013 Westgate shopping mall
attack in Nairobi.

'An ideal weapon for the Met'

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: GRAHAM CHADWICKMobile fortress: One of the unit's distinctive
armoured Jankel vans outside Wembley Stadium Anonymity: A close-up (above right)
of the female officer's partially concealed facePicture: GRAHAM CHADWICK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             673 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday
                                  Pune Mirror

Main forum sponsor out of the event

BYLINE: Ahmedabad Mirror Bureau

LENGTH: 194 words


The main sponsor of the Wharton India Economic Forum at Wharton School, Gautam
Adani who is the chairman of Gujarat-headquartered Adani group, has opted out of
the event.

The forum got embroiled in a controversy after the organisers withdrew their
invitation to Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi to deliver keynote address
through videoconferencing.

"Mr Gautam S Adani had conveyed his inability to join as a keynote speaker at
the Wharton Economic Forum. This was communicated almost a fortnight ago as he
has other pressing commitments," an official release from Adani Group said.

"Our participation at the event is just by way of sponsorship," a group
representative told Mirror. Adani group was the platinum sponsor of the March
22-23 event in Philadelphia where Modi was to speak through videoconference.

The prestigious Wharton School on Sunday cancelled the address at the annual
India-centric conference following a petition from a section of university
professors and students.

Modi cannot travel to the US as he has been denied visa post 2002 Godhra riots.
However, US-India Business Council had participated in vibrant Gujarat
investment summit in January.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             674 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 26, 2005

Britain refuses apology and compensation for Iraqis caught up in Basra riots: US
torture allegations

SECTION: Guardian International Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 164 words


The US senator John McCain says he is investigating new allegations that Iraqi
prisoners were abused by US soldiers. Allegations compiled in a report by Human
Rights Watch followed interviews with a captain and two sergeants who served in
a battalion of the elite 82nd Airborne Division at a military base called
Mercury near Falluja, the insurgent stronghold retaken by US forces last year.
The report said:

Soldiers vented their frustration by systematically torturing Iraqi detainees
from 2003 into 2004, hitting them with baseball bats

Soldiers deprived detainees of sleep, food and water, subjected them to extreme
heat and cold, stacked prisoners in human pyramids, kicked them in the face, and
put chemicals on exposed skin and eyes

One of the sergeants allegedly told the group that military intelligence
personnel often instructed soldiers to "smoke" detainees during questioning.
"Smoking" meant physically abusing the prisoners until they lost consciousness


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             675 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 15, 2000

Obituary: Thomas Foran: Lawyer who prosecuted the Chicago 7 radicals in
America's most notorious Vietnam-era show trial

BYLINE: Harold Jackson

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 822 words


Three decades after playing a starring role in one of the 20th century's most
notorious American trials, the leading Chicago lawyer, Thomas Foran, has died at
the age of 76.

Foran was the abrasive federal prosecutor in the 1969-70 case brought against
the radical protesters, known as the Chicago 7, for allegedly conspiring to
cross state lines to incite the riot that wrecked the 1968 Democratic party
convention in Chicago. In fact, eight people were originally charged, but the
Black Panther leader Bobby Seale clashed so vehemently with the bench that Judge
Julius Hoffman had him bound and gagged in the dock, and later jailed him for
four years for contempt - thus removing him from the case.

This, however, was only the most dramatic episode in a four-month trial in which
the defendants ostentatiously read newspapers in court, pulled faces at Hoffman,
passed sweets and marijuana to one another, and barracked the judge and
prosecution lawyers with obscene comments.

The charges had been filed under provisions in President Lyndon Johnson's 1968
Civil Rights Act designed to curb the spreading protests against the Vietnam
war. Since many observers assessed the mayhem in the streets surrounding the
convention hall as a police riot, the US attorney general, Ramsey Clark, was
extremely reluctant to act against any demonstrators.

That infuriated Chicago's mayor, Richard Daley, who wanted someone's head on a
charger for the slur on his city's reputation. With the encouragement of the
newly installed Nixon administration, he persuaded a crony on the federal bench
to convene a grand jury to rule whether the law had been breached. In March
1969, the jury issued indictments against eight demonstrators and eight police
officers. Foran, who owed Mayor Daley his previous year's appointment as US
attorney for northern Illinois (a regional office of the federal government),
presented the initial case to the grand jury and, 13 months after the riots,
took charge of the prosecution.

In later years, he described his daily conflicts with the defence team and its
clients as "root canal work all day long." The battle opened with jury
selection. The defence wanted to probe the 300 candidates' attitudes through a
list of 54 questions, including "Do you know who Janis Joplin and Jimi Hendrix
are?" Judge Hoffman only allowed one; whether or not prospective jurors had rela
tives or friends connected with law enforcement.

Day after day, Foran, relying in part on the evidence of government agents who
had penetrated the protesters' organisations, relentlessly questioned them about
their inflammatory speeches in the months before the convention. His case was
greatly helped when Judge Hoffman refused to allow the defence to cite other
speeches which emphasised the defendants' intention to demonstrate peaceably.

The case proceeded amid growing chaos in the courtroom, with the defendants
verbally attacking the judge and covering the floor with rubbish. They denied
ever meeting as a group and one of their witnesses, Norman Mailer, said that the
left was incapable of conspiracy "because they're all egomaniacs".

No sooner had the jury retired than Hoffman gave all the defendants, and their
lawyers, long prison terms on 159 counts of criminal contempt.

The jury eventually acquitted all defendants of conspiracy, but convicted five
of crossing state lines to incite a riot. Each was given five years'
imprisonment and a Dollars 5,000 fine. All the sentences were quashed on appeal,
and Hoffman's conduct was condemned, particularly his refusal to allow full
questioning of potential jurors. All the policemen were acquitted.

The lesson that Foran, a lifelong Democrat, drew from the experience was
entirely political. "The worst thing about the convention," he mused much later,
"was that it gave us Richard Nixon. And because of that, the Vietnam war
continued for another four or five years".

The case certainly did not blight Foran's career. He had taken to the law after
serving as a torpedo bomber pilot in the second world war. Having qualified in
1950, he opened his own partnership in Chicago in 1957. During Mayor Daley's
frenzied redevelopment of the city centre, Foran frequently acted for the
municipality in major projects, including its vast water reclamation scheme, one
of the most expensive construction projects in the world - with commensurate
legal fees.

In his role as a US attorney, Foran spent the years after the Chicago 7 case
mounting a highly successful campaign against the mid-west's many prominent
Mafia figures. Among the 150 he managed to haul before the courts over a
two-year period were such local bigwigs as Felix Alderisio, Jackie Cerone, Fifi
Buccieri, Richard Cain and William Daddano.

Foran is survived by his wife, Jean, and their six children.

Thomas Aquinas Foran, lawyer, born January 11 1924; died August 6 2000


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             676 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 2, 2001

80 years on, hope of reparation for race riot victims US race riot may get
compensation: Inquiry finds for 121 survivors of Tulsa rampage by white mob, but
officials fear it may open door to wider claims Ruling in favour of 121
survivors of 1921 rampage by white mob in Tulsa may open door to more
reparations claims

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell in Los Angeles

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 763 words


George Monroe can still recall vividly the summer night in Tulsa, Oklahoma,
nearly 80 years ago. "My mother saw four men with torches coming towards our
house."

Mr Monroe, now 85 and a slim, dignified war veteran, said: "Everything was
burning outside and you could hear gunshots. She told us kids - I was five - to
get under the bed and hide."

He can still remember peering from under the bed at the men's boots as they
stomped in and set fire to the curtains.

False rumours that a black shoe-shiner called Dick Rowland had molested a white
lift operator called Sarah Page had swept Tulsa that week and on May 31 1921 -
as the local newspaper, the Tulsa Tribune, ran the headline "To Lynch Negro
Tonight" - a white mob, including the Ku Klux Klan, rampaged through the
middle-class Greenwood area, known at the time as the "black Wall Street".

Rowland escaped. It is not known what happened to him later, but one rumour is
that he eloped to Kansas with Page.

Many of the people of Greenwood were not so fortunate. At the end of the night's
mayhem at least 40 members of the thriving black community had been killed in
one of the worst race riots the US has seen.

Now a panel officially appointed to investigate the Tulsa riot has recommended
that Mr Monroe and the other 120 remaining survivors be paid reparations in some
form, a decision seen as highly significant for the reparations movement in the
US, which has argued for African Americans to receive compensation for slavery
and discrimination.

The Tulsa Race Riot Commission, appointed by the state legislature, delivered
its final 200-page report this week to the governor of Oklahoma, Frank Keating.
It says reparations "will stand as symbols that fully acknowledge and finally
discharge a collective responsibility".

At least 40 died in the riots although researchers suggest that the number
killed could be as high as 300, as many were buried in mass graves,. The
commission has concluded that the true death toll will probably never be known.

"Not one of these criminal acts was then or ever has been prosecuted or punished
by the government at any level, municipal, county, state or federal," the report
said.

The commission has recommended five forms of reparation: cash payments to the
121 survivors, cash payments to authenti cated descendants of survivors, a
scholarship fund in memory of those who died, business incentives to revive the
Greenwood area where the riot took place and a memorial. The state has already
agreed to a Dollars 5m memorial and support for the revitalisation of the area.

However, reactions to the recommendations varied.The state house speaker, Larry
Adair, said some compensation might be in order but added: "I think we need to
be very cautious on making any commitments on how money is spent in the state of
Oklahoma."

Governor Keating said he favoured raising money for a memorial but does not
support specific financial reparations for the descendants of the survivors. "If
you can show liability on the part of the state, city and county, I do support
reparations to survivors." The issue will now be debated in the state
legislature.

Eddiefaye Gates, the chairwoman of the survivors' committee and a member of the
commission, said yesterday that resistance to the idea of compensation was
unsurprising. "There is something about this whole nation when it comes to black
people," she said. "We did it for the native Americans whose land had been
taken, we did it for the Japanese Americans who were interned during the war and
had their property taken but when it comes to black people, we don't do it."

Plans for the memorial have already been approved but Ms Gates said that
legislators were obliged to do this because a memorial has already been
completed for the victims of the much more recent Oklahoma City bombing.

Ms Gates, whose committee has tracked down 121 survivors so far, said that she
was still finding more. One, Hal Singer, became a jazz musician in Paris.

The Oklahoma representative Don Ross, whose bill in the state legislature set up
the inquiry and who has been the most active figure in seeking recompense,
yesterday hailed as "historic" the acceptance by the governor that some form of
reparation may be due. "This is the first time that any head of a state has
accepted this but we still have miles and miles to go."

He said he wanted public recognition that it had happened. "We were taught
nothing about it as children. It wasn't until I was in high school that I heard
about it."


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             677 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 11, 2002

Belfast riots: US sympathy for Protestants' distress

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 291 words


George Bush's personal envoy to Northern Ireland has intervened in the Holy
Cross disturbances by calling on political leaders to understand the "growing
insecurity" among Protestants which has fuelled the protests.

In a speech in New York, Richard Haass condemned the "brutish behaviour and
bitter sectarianism" of the Protestant crowds for intimidating young
schoolchildren.

But he said that political leaders in Northern Ireland and on both sides of the
Atlantic should do more to understand the "distress" among Protestants which has
prompted the ugly scenes.

"This rage which spilled out in this inexcusable behaviour was rooted in
economic distress, uneasiness over demographic changes, lack of proper housing,
and - most importantly - a fear that the new society being built in Northern
Ireland offers little place for those doing the protesting: for Protestants," Mr
Haass said. "What the world saw only as sectarian bigotry was much more. We were
witness to a community in the midst of a painful transition."

His remarks echoed a recent speech by the Northern Ireland secretary, John Reid,
who warned that Northern Ireland must not "become a cold place for Protestants".

Mr Haass said: "Quite simply what is needed is a house that is warm for all
those who live there."

In a message to the 44m Irish Americans, Mr Haass said that Americans should not
make the mistake of comparing the equal rights accorded to Catholics in Northern
Ireland in recent years to the emancipation of African Americans.

He contrasted the Catholic community - which is "thriving and moving beyond its
historical status as a disadvantaged community" - to Protestants who believe
that their identity is being stripped away.


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             678 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 April 2, 2004

ON ME HEAD, FRODO!

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 54 words


LORD of the Rings actor Elijah Wood hams it up as pretends to be a footie star
at Upton Park. The actor - who plays Frodo - is training with West Ham for his
role in new movie The Yank.

Elijah, 22, is a US student who teams up with a group of UK football hooligans.

After the Ring, it sounds like a riot to us!

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers


                             679 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            October 14, 2008 Tuesday

Today's mess is a legacy of Nixon's original sin

BYLINE: Daniel Jeffreys

SECTION: NEWS; Other Voices; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 663 words


The man to blame for the current financial crisis is Richard Nixon.  He set the
stage for the  implosion of world markets when he removed the US dollar from the
gold standard in August 1971.

Like the serpent who offered apples to Eve, Nixon's act was the original sin
that ejected the financial markets from a stable Eden into a world where greed,
avarice and dishonesty are free to run riot.

US dollar convertibility had been established at the 1946 Bretton Woods
conference and replaced an earlier system whereby all currencies that were
traded internationally had to be convertible into gold.

Until Nixon's fateful decision, the US Treasury maintained a "gold window" where
those holding dollars could  exchange their notes for gold bars. And come they
did: just prior to Nixon's decision, the British ambassador to the US turned up
with US$3 billion  and converted it to bullion.

Nixon's problem was that the dollar was getting weaker as the US ran up its
balance of payments deficit. Meanwhile, foreign governments had been hoarding
the greenback, which they knew they could covert at US$35 to the ounce. Rather
than easing the balance of payments crisis by seeking to make Americans thrifty,
productive and less inclined to buy cheap foreign imports, Nixon simply
deflowered the dollar, debauching the currency and making it a pliant
participant in future financial orgies dreamed up by hedge funds, mortgage
brokers and Icelandic bankers.

Until the US dollar was removed from the gold standard, it provided an anchor
for the financial system. Investors believed there was something real behind all
the paper in the banks and stock exchanges. As such, it guaranteed that market
participants knew irresponsibility would ensure a day of reckoning. In this era,
for the most part, investment banks were partnerships. If they messed up, the
partners lost everything.

Nixon's decision removed the ultimate sanction and the dollar was no longer
backed by gold but by confidence - evidently a much less durable commodity. From
1971 onwards, foreign countries held reserves of dollars instead of gold, as if
that was the same thing.

Clearly it was not, and this new system created a fresh species of moral hazard.
Governments and private companies issued paper that was backed by very little
but goodwill.  Some players, like Lehman Brothers, began printing paper, such as
collateralised debt obligations, that were based on a negligible store of value
and which had toxic characteristics - that is, they were as likely to bankrupt
investors as enrich them.

By destroying confidence, this perfidious system has brought us to the brink.
We are now in what John Maynard Keynes called "the liquidity trap",   in which
nobody wants to lend or borrow.  If we stay  there for long, there will be a
global recession.

To restore confidence, the authorities must purge the world's financial markets
of Nixon's sin and bring back a sense that the world's banking system is based
on morality, not venality. It's too late to restore the gold standard,  but
governments have to do something other than pumping more paper into a system
that has now learned to mistrust anything that isn't a precious metal.

Government action must be backed by sanctions. What has been offered so far by
the G7 meeting in Washington at the weekend and the heads of European
governments is just more of the same.  If the banking system is to survive,
lending ratios have to be tougher, bankers who stand to make billions must also
be prepared to lose everything and the world's most powerful currency must be
based on something - oil, gold fractions, the rule of law - that will not get
blown away by the next financial hurricane. There will  be real pain, growth
will   slow  and prosperity may need to take a back seat. But the alternative is
far more devastating.

Daniel Jeffreys was formerly the BBC's economics editor and chief economist at
Cazenove and Co in London. He is now the Post's magazines editor

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             680 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 19, 2013 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

The U.S. and Russia: It's a complicated relationship To Russia, with loathing?

BYLINE: Dan Zak

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1085 words


Are we supposed to hate Russia again? Not "hate" in a jingoistic sense. Not
"Russia" in terms of its people. But, you know, are we supposed to boo and hiss
and shake our star-spangled banners at what Russia stands for these days?

Boycott Sochi!

Free Pussy Riot!

Hand over Snowden! (Or keep him!)

This has been a season of mutually assured aggravation. A thawed Cold War, now a
generation gone, has simmered to a Tepid Spat.

"I was able to get a sense of his soul," former president George W. Bush said of
Russian President Vladimir Putin in June 2001.

"He's got that kind of slouch," President Obama said earlier this month after
canceling plans to meet with Putin because there was "not enough recent progress
in our bilateral agenda," as White House spokesman Jay Carney put it.

From soul-searching to slouching, in a dozen years.

From diplomatic "reset" to diplomatic "pause," just during Obama's tenure.

The cause? Russian scholars blame Putin, whose return to the Kremlin in May 2012
inaugurated this period of recalcitrant conservatism, renewed anti-Americanism
and intimidation of dissidents and political challengers. He has given up on
Russia's more progressive, urban middle class in favor of appealing to
traditionalists in small towns and agricultural areas that exist on government
donations, says Leon Aron, director of Russian studies at the American
Enterprise Institute.

"His sense is 'give them the red meat,' " says Aron, who grew up in Moscow.
"Give them cultural policies that would establish the regime as a defender of
traditional Russian values. He's reaching into fairly dangerous stuff - into
Russian nationalism, into xenophobia, into selective recovery of the Soviet
symbols, including Stalin."

Putin's support among his constituents, like Obama's, has eroded over the past
five years, but so has Russia's view of the United States. Russians favor China
over the United States by a margin of 11 percentage points, according to the Pew
Research Center. The United States now occupies a position in the Russian psyche
usually held by Georgia or Estonia: Least-friendly country, according to Maria
Lipman, scholar-in-residence at the Carnegie Moscow Center, who says the Russian
government has positioned the State Department as a villain just as the Soviet
empire did with the CIA.

"When you hear on television on a daily basis that America wants to do harm to
Russia, to impose its will on the rest of the world - of course it works,"
Lipman says. "Foreign policy is being driven by domestic developments, and
anti-American rhetoric has been instrumental in responding to the defiance in
the streets, the protests against the regime. In one of his earliest responses
to the unprecedented scene of mass political rallies, Putin said [the protests]
were inspired by Hillary Clinton."

Now the American public has begun to respond in kind. After Putin signed a law
last month that limits public expression of support for nontraditional
relationships (read: gay), the American peanut gallery suggested boycotting the
2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, or at least boycotting Stolichnaya vodka.
(Never mind that Stoli is made in Latvia and owned by a Luxembourg company.)

And America is still rallying for Pussy Riot, the feminist punk-rock collective
whose protest against Putin in February 2012 landed two of its members in
Russian prison on charges of hooliganism motivated by religious hatred. In
solidarity, Amnesty International on Friday summoned about 100 people to a
scrubby plot of grass across the street from the Russian Embassy in Washington.
At the rally, the stark message - "Free Pussy Riot" on most signs and T-shirts -
was muddled by the complexities of this tricky bilateral relationship.

"Hooray that they are protecting Edward Snowden," said Ellen Moore, 70, a
retired Amnesty employee from Colorado who stood on Wisconsin Avenue with her
"Free Pussy Riot" sign facing the embassy gates. "I would like to flip my sign
over, so they'd get both messages."

At the rally, activists and musicians made polite noise for Russia to give up
repression in favor of free expression. The consensus among attendees was that
Russia is a friend that is backsliding into bad behavior, that Americans need to
stand up for Russians who are being oppressed by their government, that maybe
the two countries have more in common than not.

"We're taught as children that we have a lot of freedom, but our government
restricts us in many ways," says Kristin Eliason, 29, the drummer for D.C. punk
band Jail Solidarity. "American hypocrisy many times mirrors Russian hypocrisy,
but I'm able to separate the people from the government."

The American public really doesn't think about Russia, except when it makes the
news for doing something outrageous, says Daniel Treisman, a professor of
political science at the University of California at Los Angeles whose expertise
is on the politics and political economy of Russia. The international reaction
to Pussy Riot, he says, has distracted from issues that are less sexy but more
expansive.

Interest in the fate of the punk band made life more difficult for people such
as lawyer and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny, who is a candidate for
mayor of Moscow in next month's election, Treisman says. "He had no choice but
to take the side of Pussy Riot, which put him in the minority and made it harder
for him to reach out to the Russian mainstream."

This friction is the result of a society and economy that have modernized more
rapidly than Russia's government and politics, Treisman says.

"We have a 1968-style revolution with young people in Moscow and St. Petersburg
announcing their presence, we have a postmodern revolution with people like
Pussy Riot, we have a 19th-century revolution about voting rights," he says.
"You have these different revolutions simultaneously, competing with each other
to define the key issue."

With Russia's relationship with the United States chilled, Putin continuing to
shore up dwindling support through authoritarian measures and Russia facing a
deepening recession and budget cuts next year, the AEI's Aron sees little reason
for optimism, even beyond the end of the Obama administration and this Tepid
Spat.

"If Putin continues to implement his policy with the same consistency and zeal
for the next five years [of his term], it would leave a barren, totally
burned-out soil," Aron says. "It radicalizes the people, there is no dialogue,
there is either 'for' or 'contra.' And you get Egypt."

dan.zak@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             681 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 14, 2013 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Indian party selects controversial Modi as its top candidate

BYLINE: Annie Gowen;Rama Lakshmi

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


Modi's anti-Muslim past overshadows future hopes       Controversial Hindu
nationalist named as his party's candidate for prime minister in IndiaNarendra
Modi has made his Indian state an economic powerhouse, but anti-Muslim
controversy dogs him.

NEW DELHI - India's main opposition party on Friday chose controversial Hindu
nationalist Narendra Modi as its prime ministerial candidate in parliamentary
elections set for next year.

The choice of Modi, chief minister of the western state of Gujarat, was long
expected but opposed by many even within his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
Several weeks of internal wrangling preceded Friday's ceremonial announcement,
at which the candidate was cheered and adorned with a garland of roses and
jasmine.

Modi, 62, has won praise for turning Gujarat into an economic powerhouse and a
magnet for foreign investment, but he comes with serious baggage, as many allege
that he did little to stop riots in his state in 2002 when hundreds of Muslims
were killed.

For that reason, his official anointment Friday presents a fresh quandary for
the United States, which denied him a visa in 2005 on the grounds that he had
violated religious freedom during the riots.

U.S. officials have long said that Modi has not reapplied for a visa, so there
is nothing to discuss.

"If Mr. Modi wants to apply for a visa and await a review like any other
applicant, he is welcome to do so," Marie Harf, a State Department deputy
spokeswoman, said Friday.

Yet his past remains a source of deep controversy in the United States. An
invitation for Modi to address the Wharton School's annual India forum via Skype
earlier this year, for example, sparked such a furor among rights activists and
others that the school rescinded it.

A senior BJP leader, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he is not
authorized to comment on the issue, said the visa question could aid Modi in the
long run. "This is the world's largest democracy. In what way will you justify
denying him a visa or having a keep-off attitude? They will have to explain
themselves," he said. "The more the U.S. keeps saying, 'Let him apply, we will
evaluate it,' the more it will benefit Modi here. He will make political capital
out of this issue in the campaign."

Although the official nomination came Friday, Modi has been acting like his
party's chief candidate for months. He delivered a rival address on India's
Independence Day in August, around the time Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, the
quiet economist, gave his traditional address from Delhi's historic Red Fort. He
also launched the BJP's national campaign tour last month.

Friday's announcement effectively marks the official beginning of election
season in India, although voters are not expected to head to the polls until
April or May. Modi will lead the BJP against the governing Congress party, which
has been mired in corruption scandals and charges of ineffectual governance. Its
leader-in-waiting, Rahul Gandhi - grandson of assassinated prime minister Indira
Gandhi - has said he isn't even sure he wants the job.

During Friday's announcement, Modi, wearing a lime-green high-collared jacket,
sat quietly during introductions by the party's president, Rajnath Singh. When
it came time for him to speak, he referred to his modest beginnings. He was the
son of grocers and ran a family tea stall as a teenager. "Today the party has
given a worker who hails from a small town and a modest family the
responsibility to do a very important task," Modi said. "I would like to appeal
to the people to please give us the strength to get the country out of this
crisis."

Modi later met with L.K. Advani, a party patriarch who has withheld his blessing
because, in part, he fears that Modi's past is too great a barrier to the
party's chances of establishing a successful coalition government next year. A
BJP-led coalition last governed India from 1999 to 2004.

annie.gowen@washpost.com

rama.lakshmi@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2013 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             682 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            February 16, 2014 Sunday

Pakistan: US envoy meets India's Narendra Modi

LENGTH: 331  words

DATELINE: Ahmedabad


Ahmedabad, Feb. 16 -- US Ambassador to India Nancy Powell on Thursday held talks
with Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi marking an end to a decade-long US
boycott of the controversial leader.

Modi is the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party's candidate for PM in the
forthcoming elections and he is accused for killing of thousands of Muslim
minorities during 2002 roits.

He was criticised for doing little to prevent religious riots in Gujarat in 2002
in which more than 1,000 Muslims, died.

Modi has always denied wrongdoing. Many Western governments broke off contact
with Modi's government after the riots. The US continues to refuse him
permission to enter the country.

Thursday's meeting is an attempt by the US to build bridges with Modi, whose
Hindu nationalist BJP is widely expected to win the elections due by May. On
Thursday morning, Powell shook hands with Mr Modi at his residence in Gujarat's
capital Gandhinagar, before going in for closed-door talk.

Powell and her entourage arrived in four official cars, but she did not speak to
waiting reporters. The US Embassy in a statement said that the "meeting was part
of the US Mission's outreach to senior leaders of India's major political
parties in advance of the upcoming national elections".

The statement said Ms Powell would also meet "representatives from
non-governmental organisations and US and Indian businesses" in Gujarat. "Her
discussions focus on the importance of the US-India relationship, regional
security issues, human rights, and American trade and investment in India," the
statement said.

Under Modi's leadership, Gujarat has been turned into one of India's economic
powerhouses. But he continues to be seen as a divisive figure and has not
expressed remorse or offered an apology for the 2002 violence

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             683 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 3, 2015 Saturday

USPTO grants trade mark "DUCHESS RIOT" to Suzanne Cotsakos (INDIVIDUAL)
(CALIFORNIA)

LENGTH: 155  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Suzanne Cotsakos (INDIVIDUAL) (CALIFORNIA), has been granted trademark (4662980)
titled as "DUCHESS RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 041. US 100 101 107. G & S: Entertainment services in the nature of
live visual and audio performances, and musical, variety, news and comedy shows;
Entertainment services in the nature of live visual and audio performances by an
actor; Live performances featuring prerecorded vocal and instrumental
performances viewed on a big screen; Presentation of live show performances;
Production and distribution of videos in the field of comedy, drama, improv,
performance art, and live performance; Production of humorous videos for the
Internet; Provision of information relating to live performances, road shows,
live stage events, theatrical performances, live music concerts and audience
participation in such events. FIRST USE: 20111215.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             684 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                             March 13, 2015 Friday
                               Telegraph3 Edition

ROVE IS GAME FOR ANOTHER SHOT AT U.S.

BYLINE: Sydney Confidential with Briana Domjen, Annette Sharp, Jonathon Moran &
Ros Reines

SECTION: CONFIDENTIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 124  words


ROVE McManus is set to give the US market another shot, this time in the game
show arena.

After a lukewarm debut on US television with talk show Rove LA and a failed turn
hosting Riot, the US version of Slide Show, the Aussie star has landed a new
gig.

McManus will be the host of Lie Detectors, a comedy panel show to air on US
cable network Game Show Network.

The show boasts that it will be extremely interactive with the studio audience
and in each episode three comedians will tell an out-there story, but only one
will tell the truth.

The audience will have to guess throughout the show which comedian is telling
the truth, with the winner being the person who guesses the most correct
answers.The audience member can then play for a cash prize.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             686 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                          2 - All-round First Edition

ECONOMIC CHALLENGES SHOULD NOT POLARISE OUR EGALITARIAN SOCIETY

BYLINE: BRAD ORGILL

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 946  words


It's important we don't exacerbate the wealth divide

AUSTRALIA is at a major turning point. Amid the vociferous carbon tax debate, a
multi-track economy, cost of living pressures, the threat of GFC 2 and divisive
issues such as exploration of coal-seam gas, we need a rethink on the collective
benefits of dispassionate analysis and trust in each other and in our public
institutions.

We also need to be wary of any further polarisation of our wealth and income
distribution, as the direct benefits of a reasonably equal society -- such as
lower rates of crime, mental health, stress and obesity -- accrue to all
citizens, including the rich.

Just 1 per cent of Australians own 20 per cent of the nation's wealth and the
most marginalised 4 million Australians control only 1 per cent. Very unequal
societies impose significant economic inefficiency. Consider the direct and
indirect cost of the British riots and of the US penal system.

In the US, 1 per cent of the population has 40 per cent of the wealth, the
wealthy decline to pay the tax necessary to support the impoverished, and the
imprisonment rate, at almost one in a 100, is four times the Australian rate.

It is in all our interests to ensure the current and emerging economic
challenges do not further exacerbate the divide between the haves and have-nots.

We are blessed to have the revenue receipts flowing from the commodities boom.
We must ensure this underwrites our long-term economic success.

Business leaders advocate the need for increased publicly funded infrastructure,
investment in human capital and reduction in corporate taxes.

It is also desirable to elevate the tax-free threshold for individuals to the
Henry review target of $25,000 and increase the superannuation rate. Both
increase the incentive to work and relieve the economic stress of the most
marginalised.

Federal and state governments spend in aggregate $400 billion each year. With a
sharp focus on value for money we have ample funds to deliver the requirements
for an efficient, strong economy, a fair and vibrant society, and protect the
environment.

For 30 years the global economic mantra has included an uncritical belief in
free markets, free flow of capital, privatisation, globalisation and
deregulation.

As an investment banker in Hong Kong I witnessed first-hand the positive
transformation of China delivered by the flow of foreign direct investment.

But I have also seen markets consistently fail and deliver pain to the average
taxpayer and the most marginalised in society.

The GFC is the result of an undeserving faith in the self-regulating nature of
markets.

Most of those suffering from the GFC -- the 9.5 per cent unemployed in the US,
the 20 per cent of public servants whose jobs were cut in Britain, and the
Irish, Greek and Italian citizens now with less public services to call on --
had no involvement in financial markets but they now bear the pain of this
fallout.

Via bailouts and stimulus and a rise in social welfare payments, governments
around the world have picked up much of the bill for the GFC. Burdened with the
extra debt and falling revenues, many government balance sheets are stretched.

We are fortunate that we have been spared much of this northern hemisphere pain,
but the GFC is still unfolding and the future has other challenges that are only
now emerging. China has been a major exporter of deflation for 30 years. This
has contributed to a structural reduction in interest rates across the world and
allowed us to fund ever bigger mortgages and rebadge the price of our houses.

This has now ended, and China is now an exporter of inflation. It is most
obvious in the price of food and energy but is also occurring in basic
manufactured goods such as clothing. This structural shift will inflict
increasing pain for the next 30 years.

Via the internet, globalisation is also about to shift into a higher gear.

The internet is beginning to strip out retail jobs and will increasingly put
pressure on professional services. Within five years it will be untenable for
governments to regulate our overseas purchases. We will buy insurance, funds,
banking and telecom services from the most efficient global operators over the
net.

Our long-term ability to drive income growth is directly dependent on growth in
productivity.

We cannot allow this debate to focus only on cutting employee compensation in
the name of labour market reform when senior executive compensation continues to
rise.

Instead let's focus on impediments to innovation and entrepreneurship, spending
that is not delivering value for money, the effectiveness and alignment of our
investment in education and training and the opportunity to enhance our use of
technology to create new globally competitive businesses.

Let's also be intellectually honest and recognise that the high concentration of
market share and the resultant reduced competition in many Australian industries
might also be a constraint.

Climate change and the potential poisoning of the Great Artesian basin are also
market failures via the inadequate pricing of externalities and inadequate
application of the precautionary principle. We need to examine both with the
presumption of professional competence in the science.

In the heat of the political debate and the partisan positions adopted by this
or that business and lobby interest group, it's time for us all to recognise the
benefits of rekindling a sense of Australian unity and aspiring to preserve a
cohesive, relative egalitarian society.

______________________________

>> Brad Orgill is former chairman of UBS Australia and headed the federal
government's Building the Education Revolution Implementation Taskforce

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             687 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                            March 3, 2001, Saturday

YANKEL KIN RIPS GOP OVER REV. AL

BYLINE: By DAVE GOLDINER DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 354 words

The brother of Crown Heights riot victim Yankel Rosenbaum blasted Republican
National Committee leaders yesterday for backing away from a letter attacking
the Rev. Al Sharpton.

Norman Rosenbaum says the GOP leaders should have stood up to Sharpton's $30
million libel suit over the charges that he instigated the 1991 riots as well as
a 1995 massacre at a Harlem clothing store.

"If the RNC want to back away from those comments, they're backing away from the
truth," said Rosenbaum, 44, a lawyer from Melbourne, Australia. "It makes me
sick. It's the height of irresponsibility."

The committee's letter, written by then-chairman Jim Nicholson and published
last March in The Washington Post, called Sharpton "a hatemonger, an anti-Semite
and a racist" and blamed him for instigating the Brooklyn riots.

Sharpton dropped his suit after the GOP agreed to a statement stepping away from
those charges. The deal was reported in yesterday's Daily News.

"The letter did not intend to imply that Rev. Sharpton committed any illegal
acts in connection with the Crown Heights disturbances or the events at Freddy's
Fashion Mart. The RNC regrets any such misunderstanding," the statement said.

But Rosenbaum, who was visiting New York yesterday, said he still believes
Sharpton was a driving force behind the riots that raged for several days
between blacks and Jews in Crown Heights.

Instead of trying to calm tensions, Sharpton fanned the flames, Rosenbaum
insisted.

"The reality is: Al Sharpton played a fundamental role in the Crown Heights
riots," he said. "If someone responsible would have stepped forward, my brother
might be alive today."

Yankel Rosenbaum, an Australian-born Hasidic scholar, was stabbed to death
during the unrest, which erupted after a black child was struck and killed by a
car in the motorcade of a Hasidic leader.

Rosenbaum said Nicholson should have stuck to his guns. "What it does is
legitimize a racist, anti-Semite and hatemonger," said Rosenbaum, echoing
Nicholson's comments of last year. "To pander to someone like him is a great
insult to the African-American community."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Norman Rosenbaum

                        Copyright 2001 Daily News, L.P.


                             688 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          November 26, 2014 Wednesday

Xavier University Campus Leaders Make Annual Who's Who List

LENGTH: 1368  words

DATELINE: New Orleans


Xavier University of Louisiana has issued the following news release:

One hundred and fifty student Xavier University of Louisiana scholars will
appear in the 2015 edition of Who's Who Among Students in American Universities
and Colleges, an annual chronicle of the nation's outstanding campus leaders.

The students - chosen by XU department chairs and faculty and approved by the
editors of the directory - were selected based on their academic achievement,
service to the community, leadership in extracurricular activities and potential
for continued success. They join an elite group of students from more than 2,000
institutions of higher learning in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and
several foreign nations. Outstanding students have been honored in the annual
directory since it was first published in 1934.

The students included in this year's directory are listed below, grouped by
their divisions/departments:

BUSINESS - (Accounting) Erin Ancar, Christopher Hayes, Ivyanne London, and
Victoria Thompson; (Finance) Keisha Murray; (Management) Markea Gilbert and
Rasaan Hollis; and (Sales & Marketing) Ajhia Ellis, Hue-Hillary Nguyen, Kaila
Pulliam Collins, and Kennedy St. Charles

BIOCHEMISTRY: Dominique Benson, Christopher Dunlock, and Destane Garrett

BIOLOGY - (Biology Education) Cyndi Paz; (Biology/Pre-Med) Tarrin Casey, Duy
Dang, Jeremiah Davis, Jasmine Douglas, Paige Estave, Shikira Flounory, Kristen
Fowler, Briana Jarrett, Leslie Jones, Kevin Lam, David Le, Hoang Michael Nguyen,
Tami Nguyen, Tri Pham, Sherry Reddix, Leanna Rucker, Brittany Russell, Heba
Sarhan, Treasure Stone, and Theresia Sutherlin

CHEMISTRY - (Chemistry) Chinedu Echebelem and Peter Pham; (Chemistry ACS) Lacey
Douglas and Lydia Mensah; (Chemistry/Pre-Med) Ayanna Banks, Jamie Bolden, Amber
Carter, Kandis Carter, Kai Combs, Jasmine Geathers, Taylor Harris, Jade Meyers,
David Powell, Derriyan Price, and Danyelle Wesley; (Chemistry/Pre-Pharmacy)
Nancy Pham

COMPUTER SCIENCE - (Information Systems) Jasmine Lewis; and (Computer Science)
Gregory Degruy, Nam Nguyen, and Tuan Nguyen

EDUCATION - (Counseling) Natasha Ballard, Anita Cox, and Ayla Yarbrough;
(Clinical Mental Health) Octavia Davis and Celita Owens (Educational Leadership)
Kendall McManus-Thomas and Thomas Wright Jr.; (Elementary Education) Megan
Riley, Melissa Riley, Kaylan Rogers, Rynisha Streeter, and Jennifer Tran; (MAT)
Ashton LeBourgeois, LaDonna Jackson, Jasmine Jones; (Middle School Education)
Vallery Jenkins

ENGLISH - (English) Jessica Gardiner, Jordyn Goody, Simone Graham, Anthony
Lotten, and Mia Ruffin; (English Education) Catherine Fakler

HISTORY - Alexis Parker

LANGUAGES - (Spanish) Bianca Moore and Ashley Taylor

MASS COMMUNICATION - Deanna Nichelle Eaton, Kareka Green, Keshante Horton, and
Franziska Antonia Pirkl

MATHEMATICS - Jennifer Vicks

MUSIC - (Music) Jasmine Eugene; (Music Performance) Simone Brown

PHARMACY - Evelyn Ambush, Sobia Arshad, Michael Aucoin, Temitayo Banjo, ALeon
Burgess, Antonio Chimezie, Rose Duchane, Sara El-Rachidi, Terri Frazier, Amanda
Grego, Rayya Hunter, Brianna Jenkins, Breanna Lorick, Laneka Mumphrey, Stephanie
Ogunrinade, Lynda Osei, Anthony Poche, Ashlee Poolson, Derrick Pullins, Jeffey
Quach, Claire Reuter, Teri Robinson, Malak Saad, Chandler Schexnayder, Johlee
Schinetsky, Natalie Tran, Ashlynn Volpe, Brittany Williams, Lashira Williams,
Marlon Williams, and David Wilson

PHILOSOPHY - Paul Joseph

PHYSICS/ENGINEERING - (Biomedical Engineering) Laquel Brown and Oyindayo Hassan;
(Chemical Engineering) Levon LeBan; (Civil Engineering) Summer Flowers;
(Electrical Engineering) Jarielle Gilbert

POLITICAL SCIENCE - Eric Craig, Jade Crutch, Evangeline Dech, Jodi Hill, Gregory
Jones, Michael Moore, DeVon Pruitt, Aleshia Smith, Cierra Wilcox, and Felecia
Woolens

PSYCHOLOGY - (Psychology) Ashanti Anderson, Donielle Curry, Danielle Hodges,
Chinyere Okafor, Jusiah Prowell, Keyaisha Thomas, and Toiya Williams;
(Psychology/Pre-Med) Megan Bright, Ricaylah Citizen, Armond Collins, Efehi
Edomwonyi, Kyriante Henry, Jazzolynn Kelly, Thuy-Lihn Nguyen, Amber Owens, and
Khalil Thompson

SOCIOLOGY - Alana Peck

SPEECH PATHOLOGY - Amithyse Moore

Xavier University's Performance Studies Laboratory Examines Genocide in Diamond
Dick

New Orleans LA - The Xavier University Performance Studies Laboratory continues
its 2014-2015 season with the staged reading of "Diamond Dick," an Erik Ehn play
about the 1921 Tulsa, Oklahoma Race Riots.

This second live event of the season, a collaboration with ArtSpot Productions,
will take place Tuesday, Nov. 18, at 7:30p.m. in the Xavier University
Administration Building Auditorium located on Drexel Drive. The performance is
free and open to the public, but seats are limited.

"Diamond Dick" is part of Soulographie, a series of interconnected dramatic
works exploring the tragic phenomena of genocide globally with stories drawn
from various regions around the world including the African continent (Rwanda
and Uganda), Central America (Guatemala and El Salvador) and the United States
(Tulsa, Oklahoma).  Conceived and written by playwright Eric Ehn, the series
contemplates violent conflict, survival and rebirth within the human spirit and
illustrates the potential for theatre and art workers to bear witness to
suffering and resiliency in ways that allow audiences to meaningfully access the
experiences of others. Comprised of seventeen plays, Soulographie was presented
in its entirety in a cycle of performances around the United States in
2011-2012. This year, New Orleans serves as a host city for several of the
pieces in the cycle.

For the Xavier event, Drs. Lisa Flanagan, Ross Louis, and Robin G. Vander share
directing duties of the student ensemble cast in its staged reading of "Diamond
Dick." Inspired by the 1921 Tulsa Race Riots, the work chronicles the historic
racial uprising when mobs of white citizens attacked African Americans and
burned the prosperous area of town known at the time as "Black Wall Street."

While some might be familiar with this moment in American history, the
Performance Studies Laboratory presentation provides a thoughtful opportunity to
once again encounter this tragedy in American history and the African American
experience. Through a compelling cast of characters, the narrative follows the
events in Tulsa after Dick Rowland, an African American shoe shiner,
accidentally falls against a white woman, Sarah Page, during a Memorial Day
parade. Immediately the occurrence is spun into rumors of rape, instigating
unrest and demands for an arrest of Rowland. The local white-owned newspaper
will call for a lynching and African American soldiers, veterans of World War I,
will coalesce to confront the mobs. For forty-eight hours, unrest and rampage
grip Tulsa and African Americans will be rounded up and placed in internment
camps. As a dramatic work "Diamond Dick" records these events and will
eventually lead audiences to the moment, years later, when Rowland and Page meet
again.

"Diamond Dick" is presented by the Xavier University Performance Studies
Laboratory in association with ArtSpot Productions, an ensemble of artists
dedicated to creating meticulously live theater in New Orleans, and whose
performances are informed by concerns for social justice and the ability to
incite positive change in the local community. ArtSpot is working with
university partners, Xavier and the University of New Orleans, to present staged
readings of Soulographie plays in advance of its full staging of "Maria Kizito"
on Nov. 14-16 and 21-23 at NOCCA Black Box Theatre. For more information on
"Maria Kizito," visit HERE.

The Xavier University Performance Studies Laboratory is an interdisciplinary
working group of Xavier faculty with training and backgrounds in Performance
Studies. The Laboratory studies performance in contexts such as literature,
cultural ritual and rites of passage, identity construction, civic engagement
and political actions, and visual and material culture, among others.

For additional information, contact Ross Louis (504-520-5103) or e-mail:
xuperformancestudieslaboratory@gmail.com

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             689 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

USPTO grants trade mark "RIOT" to Riot Games, Inc. (CALIFORNIA)

LENGTH: 183  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Riot Games, Inc. (CALIFORNIA), has been granted trademark (4641399) titled as "
RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 041. US 100 101 107. G & S: Entertainment services, namely,
providing on-line computer games for others over global and local area computer
networks; entertainment services, namely, providing information to game players
on the performance and scores of other players of interactive online games, as
an integral component of online gaming services; providing interactive online
computer games via the World Wide Web; providing information about online
computer games and video games via the World Wide Web; providing multiplayer
interactive games over the World Wide Web; entertainment services, namely,
providing tracking of users of online interactive gaming services and matching
online game players with other players of all skill levels, as an integral
component of online gaming services; providing a website featuring on-line
product trivia, tips and strategies for computer games; fan club services. FIRST
USE: 20091027.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             690 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 20, 2014 Monday

USPTO grants trade mark "RENO ROCKABILLY RIOT" to Sampson, Paul (INDIVIDUAL)
(NEVADA)

LENGTH: 72  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Sampson, Paul (INDIVIDUAL) (NEVADA), has been granted trademark (4620221) titled
as "RENO ROCKABILLY RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 041. US 100 101 107. G & S: Entertainment in the nature of a car
and music festival which includes traditional pre 1968 hot rods, pin up girls,
and rockabilly style music that celebrates the culture of rockabilly. FIRST USE:
20100810.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             691 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 14, 2014 Friday

USPTO grants trade mark "RIOT" to Ghost-Bikes GmbH (GERMANY)

LENGTH: 62  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Ghost-Bikes GmbH (GERMANY), has been granted trademark (4634902) titled as "
RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 028. US 022 023 038 050. G & S: Protective supports, namely, knee
guards for athletic sports use; sports articles, namely, protectors for elbows,
sports articles, namely, back protectors for cycling sports

Filing

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             692 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

Ottawa offers flights as Canadians urged to leave Egypt

BYLINE: mike de souza postmedia news

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 854  words


OTTAWA - The federal government has announced it is organizing charter flights
to help Canadian travellers flee Egypt as early as today.

Foreign Affairs Minister Lawrence Cannon announced details of the flights Sunday
evening in Ottawa, on the heels of similar action taken earlier in the day by
the United States and other countries.

"The government has evacuation plans in place for Canadian citizens in Egypt who
wish to depart," said Cannon. "Our government is making arrangements to provide
transportation to locations in Europe. Canadian citizens who travel on arranged
transport will be expected to make their own onward travel plans from these
locations."

As violent protests swept through the streets of Egypt for a sixth day Sunday,
Canadians trapped in the country had been up until now asking just what their
government was doing to help them.

Marie-Claude Vigneault said she had been trying to reach Canadian embassy
officials for six days since deadly protests began last week.

She said local police have been nowhere in sight. And while her friends from
other countries - such as France, Mexico and the United Kingdom - have all been
in touch with local consular officials, Vigneault said she had not received a
single response from the Canadian embassy or government officials.

"I almost feel ashamed to be Canadian," said Vigneault, who moved to Egypt from
Quebec City eight years ago. "We were not even able to contact Ottawa. The
emergency number doesn't work."

As rioting and arson continue in Cairo, the Department of Foreign Affairs
upgraded its warning, advising Canadians already in Egypt to "consider leaving
if their presence is not necessary."

"They may wish to ask family or friends outside of Egypt to help with online
travel arrangements, such as securing plane tickets, as local travel service
providers may be limited in their capability to do so," the department's travel
advisory posted online read.

There are believed to be about 5,500 Canadians in Egypt.

During the riots, the death toll has climbed to more than 100 people, as
Egyptians continue to call for the ouster of embattled President Hosni Mubarak.

The Egyptian government shut down Internet access following the start of the
riots.

The United States and Iraq have told their citizens to evacuate and offered
flights to take them home to safety.

Vigneault said that when she called the embassy, she was put on hold and
eventually transferred to Ottawa with no response.

After waiting on hold for 20 minutes, she said she ran out of credit to make
calls, spending more than $100 with no one to speak to on the other end of the
line.

Dan McTeague, the Liberal party's critic for consular affairs, said the
government's reaction to helping Canadians in Egypt has been "extremely
concerning."

"One would have hoped and thought that a number of contingency plans would have
been revealed by now. As a result, it would appear that Canadians' lives could
be in jeopardy," he said.

"This is a very serious matter and it's troubling that the only time the
government appears to react is if other nations do so. Canadians are having to
fend for themselves without response from the government and now it might be a
little too late," he said.

Vigneault, whose husband passed away in December, said she has been getting more
help from the locals in Egypt who know that she is now a widow. Her mother
arrived to visit her from Quebec City at the beginning of the month and is still
with her at an apartment in the suburban neighbourhood of Maati, south of
downtown Cairo.

In contrast, she said one of her friends from France was contacted by the French
consular officials who explained the situation and how to prepare for a possible
evacuation.

Vigneault said she has heard gunshots and machine guns firing in recent days
around her block and has tried to avoid going outside. But she said the
situation has stabilized over the past day, mainly because the locals are now
carrying guns, knives or blunt objects to protect themselves.

Although the military has been brought in to restore the security on the
streets, she said they simply don't have the numbers to stop all the vandalism,
looting and violence on the streets downtown

Even in some historic sites such as Saqqara - an ancient burial ground site
about 30 kilometres south of Cairo that is the site of the step pyramid of
Djoser, built nearly 5,000 years ago - she said that she has spoken to someone
who works in the area and is seeing looting and vandalism in the museum, as well
as the site itself.

"There is no more security there," she said.

Meanwhile, she was able to buy some groceries at the beginning of the weekend
and has supplies to last her for about two weeks. Many basic items are becoming
very expensive, she said.

"There's almost nothing left in the grocery store," she said.

Early on Sunday evening, she said a friend of hers from Quebec had finally heard
from Canadian foreign affairs officials who said they were trying to reach her
but got no response on her phone.

Vigneault said her Internet connection and mobile phones were initially cut off,
but the phones are once again working again.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2011 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             693 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Citizen (Dar es Salaam)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday

Book On Who is Who Opposition History [opinion]

LENGTH: 766  words


As I skimmed through Ludovick S. Mwijage's unusual book, I kept wondering how
things have changed. Such a piece of writing would have landed any Tanzanian in
serious, serious trouble 30 years ago.

Just look at the title: "Julius K. Nyerere: Servant of God or Untarnished
Tyrant?"

The 272-page book is last year's upgrade of "The Dark Side of Nyerere's Legacy"
published in 1994 by Wisdom House. Their website is www.wisdomhouse.co.uk

It is the first time a Tanzanian author has boldly criticised the moral
authority of the founder of the republic.

And the questioning is not a mere emotional or political rant but a document
filled with facts, names, dates, photographs of all those killed, detained or
vanished after being questioned secretly by the government. These also include
unsolved deaths like that of former Prime Minister Edward Sokoine in 1984.

Read a typical sentence on page 125: "It is paradoxical that in most black
African nations, Tanzania included, it is sometimes dangerous to be a friend of
the regime as its enemy.

"A Tanzanian example. On October 19, 1968, Nyerere, then President, ordered
several Members of Parliament expelled and detained others without trial. Their
crime? Criticising his policies during a budget debate. Amongst the victims were
Eli Anangisye and a one-time friend of Nyerere, Joseph Kasella Bantu,..."

Mwijage further explains that a journalist was arrested for daring to file a
story of the detentions in neighbouring Kenya's Daily Nation. His name was Melek
Mzirai Kangero.

Now let us pause for a minute.

This is 43 years ago; months after the Arusha Declaration of 1967 and the
expulsion of then Cabinet member and Nyerere's star colleague, Oscar Salathiel
Kambona.

Mwijage, of course, discusses Kambona (who died in London in 1997, where he was
exiled for 25 years); actually there is a photograph of them together in London,
in 1992.

The former Foreign Minister, writes Mwijage, was, "stripped off his citizenship
on the instructions of Nyerere himself. This followed Kambona's defection to the
United Kingdom after disagreeing with Nyerere on various political issues."

Remember.

The year 1968 was a crucial time globally; and it was reflected in Tanzania,
too. Tanu had made a policy change to Ujamaa; the Cold War was raging and with
it the Vietnam conflict, Paris and Prague riots, United States Black Panthers,
Dr Martin Luther King's assassination, the anti-apartheid struggle and
Tanzania's 1964 union with Zanzibar still fresh.

So when Kasella Bantu, Anangisye and others were expelled, the atmosphere was
tense. Years later I would work with journalist Kangero's son at Uhuru and his
father's name would be whispered in awe. They were days of silent fear and
paranoia.

How then do we know what really happened?

No local journalist or writer has published a candid book about the frightful
Mwalimu era.

None of the leaders involved at that time, including Mwalimu Nyerere himself,
have released any memoirs. How will a young person or future students learn
about what really transpired?

Oscar Kambona and former Zanzibar Cabinet minister Abdulrahman Babu (detained
with others after the Sheikh Abeid Karume's assassination of 1972) and died in
London in 1996, both never published autobiographies.

It is phenomenal that our leaders never bother with biographies. Recently, the
only biographer has been Edwin Mtei, former Minister of Finance and Governor of
the Bank of Tanzania and founder of Chadema (Chama Cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo)
in 1992. His "From Goat-herder to Governor" (by Mkuki na Nyota) came out in
2009.

Only one...

But Kenya's former minister Tom Mboya (killed in 1969) wrote Freedom and After,
and even Jomo Kenyatta himself published "Facing Mount Kenya" in 1938. Nelson
Mandela has "Long Walk to Freedom" (1995) and "Conversations with Myself"
(2010).

Retired leaders in the West make money publishing their experiences. Former
British Prime Minister Tony Blair is alleged to have been paid 5 million pounds
for his memoirs (The Journey) before it came out last year.

Ludovick Mwijage's book is, therefore, unique. It is the first time anyone has
brought out the issue of political prisoners and the penal system from the
inside.

The Bukoba -born lawyer and former school teachersays he was captured in
Swaziland in 1983, tortured, interrogated and detained until he escaped into
exile 1985.

His story documents personal and political feelings plus his encounters with
what he calls Tanzania's political police. A Kiswahili version of the book is
expected in East African shops by May or June.

Mr Macha is a writer and musician based in London.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             694 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday

Of Yuppies, Yobs and Dictators [opinion]

LENGTH: 1645  words


Yuppies is an 80s term defined by Wikipedia as referring to a member of the
upper middle class or upper class in their 20s or 30s whose usage came to an end
due to the 1987 stock market crash and the early 1990s recession.

I revive its usage because the yuppies believe that the August 2011 riots in
England were nothing but works of thuggery (popularly known now as yobs) which
are driven in large measure by a gangster mentality and broken family values.

Such a mindset thinks that might is right, and refuses to accept reality, but
would rather hide behind terms such as yobs in order to protect its interests -
mostly political and economic.

We saw that after the five days of rioting in the UK, and on August 9, British
Prime Minister David Cameron "completely condemned the scenes that we have seen
on our television screens . . . sickening scenes - scenes of people looting,
vandalising, thieving, robbing, scenes of people attacking police officers . . .
criminality, pure and simple, and it has to be confronted and defeated."

When similar incidents occur in Africa, yuppies demonise the actions and instead
of thuggery behaviour, we hear terms like rebellion, uprisings and others.

Western governments become cheer leaders arguing that rioters have every reason
to demonstrate against "corrupt" and "dictatorial" governments. But they forget
that this is a global village. There is a yob behaviour that started with 12
students on Wall Street, the United States of America's financial district.

They called it Occupy Wall Street. However, the Occupy Wall Street protests are
all over the United States and Canada and they have entered their twentieth day.
Although the US and Canadian citizens are beginning to give credence to the
demonstrators, the story is really still under wraps. The Dalai Lama, Libya,
Syria, Somalia, Afghanistan, Palestine are the big stories recycled daily
because those who call the shots have strategic interests to protect.

But, when Occupy Wall Street, an uprising that has a bearing on the globalised
world happens, it is as if an uprising in the US is different from the ones in
North Africa or Zimbabwe. To start with, it's no secret that countries such as
the US are operated by interest groups. I have written about "The Obama
Deception" documentary before, a documentary that bares it all.

It's also an open secret that the US is one of the most policed nations in the
world, and most people wonder whether these protests will really shape up and
last.

So, the Occupy Wall Street won't be a big story like the Tahrir Square uprisings
in Egypt early this year, which resulted in president Hosni Mubarak's ouster,
until the interest groups give the nod.

Only then will satellite TV stations such as CNN, BBC, Sky News, France 24 and
Al-Jazeera carry it.

When they do, what angle will they take? In North Africa they cheered and the
leadership of Western countries encouraged the demonstrators to carry on until
their demands were met. Who will cheer on the Occupy

Wall Street demonstrators? But, as we wait for them to turn it into an
international story, there is no harm in saying that contrary to wild
expectations, what we are witnessing right now is a developing story that is
turning into an American Spring, just like the Tunisian and Egyptian uprisings
resulted in the Arab Spring.

These are developments that I prefer to call, "From Tahrir Square to Zuccotti
Park" (now called Liberty Park) in New York. It is a story that combines
yuppies, yobs and dictators for the protesters have continued their occupation
of Zuccotti Park, near the New York Stock Exchange, despite mass arrests last
weekend.

The Occupy demonstrators started as a small but loose group, and the mainstream
media could not be bothered with yobs that had little to do except make some
noise in a democratic society. But interestingly, from the very onset, they said
that they were getting inspiration from the Arab Spring.

Here are the comparisons. The Tunisian uprising started in December 2010 and
ended in January 2011 with president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's ouster. But
according to the Tunisians, it is on-going.

The major causes of the uprising were unemployment; government corruption;
inflation; self-immolation and lack of freedom. In Egypt, they rose up against
police brutality; state of emergency laws; corruption; high unemployment, etc.
The nature of the uprisings whose centre was Tahrir Square in Cairo was civil
disobedience; riots; strike actions and online activism. These have become the
template for the uprisings in North

Africa and the Middle East.

Now, juxtapose these with the UK riots whose characteristics were rioting;
looting; arson; mugging and assault. Just like the Arab Spring, the UK riots
recorded five deaths and many arrests. As the protests crossed the Atlantic, we
realise that the protesters have a longer laundry list of grievances, but they
have targeted the banking sector. Their single demand is to "occupy Wall
Street".

From an analytical point of view, Wall Street becomes a representation of an
oppressive system - what they call the one percent that is lording it over the
99 percent of the people.

They are also saying that they are taking "to task the people who perpetrated
the economic meltdown" of 2008. They are also protesting against "social and
economic inequality, corporate greed and the influence of corporate money and
lobbyists on government."

This could be the mother of all revolutions because the debt crisis in the
United States and Europe has far-reaching implications internationally. Although
I do not have the figures, there are thousands of Zimbabweans in both the US and
Europe, who have already been adversely affected by the economic meltdown - job
losses in particular.

It also remains to be seen whether the age-old adage, "when America sneezes, the
whole world catches a cold" will stand.

As the protests spread, so also the messages on their posters. The following
were some: "The police are tools of the rich; You can't buy the earth; Fight
racism and police brutality; Robbed by the bank; Banks - get out of politics and
student loans; Citizen of the world not corporate America; Money for jobs not
war; The only way to experience the American dream is while sleeping;
Billionaires - your time is up; How did the cat get so fat?; You're a pawn in
their game; etc.

Billionaire George Soros who is backing the protests for reasons still not clear
will probably have to rethink.

On Monday one of the demonstrators wore a T-shirt with the message, "The present
is struggle. The future is ours. - Che". Another protestor had a placard with
the Latin American revolutionary Che Guevara on it, and it read: "Si se puede -
The workers' struggle has no borders".

Will the Che element force the American authorities to quash it and label the
protesters communists?

But the protesters' resolve and confidence so far shows that it is most
unlikely, especially when workers' unions and Hollywood personalities are slowly
lending support. Min Reyes, one of the organisers of the

Vancouver demonstrations in Canada said, "I knew as soon as I saw the first
uprising in Tunisia it was going to pick up. Our system is very unsustainable
and it was only a matter of time for that movement to come to Canada and
Vancouver."

The West has called itself a champion of democracy, fighting needless wars in
different parts of the world, and preferring to sponsor those wars and illegal
regime change, rather than development so that the global village does not have
top and under dogs.

It is also important for the US to learn that while they created a melting pot
of cultures, religions, classes - they, however, proceeded to fight wars in
other parts of the world - where the current generation's ancestry came from.

The protesters who are on their streets today have been watching as they saw
their original home countries destroyed to smithereens by drones and the people
reduced to beggars.

What the US president Barack Obama said about Tahrir Square is also ironic:
"While the sights and sounds that we heard were entirely Egyptian, we can't help
but hear the echoes of history - echoes from Germans

tearing down a wall, Indonesian students taking to the streets, Gandhi leading
his people down the path of justice.

As Martin Luther King said in celebrating the birth of a new nation in Ghana
while trying to perfect his own, "There is something in the soul that cries out
for freedom. Those were the cries that came from Tahrir Square, and the entire
world has taken note."

When the Chicago sit-in, which is Obama's base began on September 23 and the
Chicago Tribune reported that some protesters called it their Tahrir Square.
What came to Obama's mind?

As protesters in Chicago beat drums - the true African way, what again came to
his mind as he moves around the US looking for economic solutions and seeing a
bleak re-election staring him in the face?

It has also been easy to take other nation states before the United Nations and
also exercising its veto as it saw fit. But when push comes to shove like what
happened at the weekend when more than 700 people were arrested how will this be
handled?

Will Obama be forced to deploy the army across the nation if the protests really
turn out to be like Tahrir Square? But as the Zuccotti Park gains momentum, it
is still critical to ask whether we are witnessing the end of an era of the 21st
century's revolutions?

Peter Schwartz says, " . . . scenarios are tools for taking a long view . . . By
drawing sketches of what might happen tomorrow, you can make savvy choices
today."

This is the remarkable opportunity we have in sub-Saharan Africa. Lessons
abound. Instead of replicating other people's blunders, let's create a future
for our young people. We will remain alert, but for now we leave it to the big
guns to see how they deal with their "sophisticated" occupiers.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             695 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                            March 19, 2014 Wednesday

Never said Modi incorruptible: WikiLeaks

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, March 19 -- Whistle-blower Julian Assange's WikiLeaks said the
Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had pushed fake endorsement in support of its prime
minister nominee Narendra Modi.

In a series of tweets, WikiLeaks claimed it never said Modi was incorruptible, a
stand contrary to what a section of BJP supporters allegedly believes. Some BJP
posters have also allegedly used the 'endorsement', TV reports said.

".rather he is popular because 'viewed' as 'incorruptible'," WikiLeaks said in a
tweet, which could give the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) enough ammo
to launch a fresh offensive on the Gujarat chief minister ahead of the
high-voltage general elections.

Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal have
questioned Modi's development claims and 'clean image' at their recent rallies.

The BJP, however, downplayed the tweets. "We don't need a certificate from
Wikileaks or Assange on Modiji," a tweet by news agency ANI quoted BJP leader
Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi as saying.

The controversy dates back to 2006, when US diplomat and Mumbai consular general
Michael S Owen, according to WikiLeaks, met with Modi.

The whistle-blower website published a cable on the minutes of the meeting held
about eight years before US ambassador Nancy Powell met Modi in Gandhinagar this
February and marked the end of the country's nine-year boycott imposed on the
Gujarat chief minister in the aftermath of the 2002 riots. The US had denied
Modi a diplomatic visa in 2005.

Owen and Modi had discussed Gujarat's development, investment in the state as
well as communalism, said the Wikileaks cable.

It highlights the part where Rajkot Congress party leader Manoharsinh Jadeja
said Modi's "accomplishments were undeniable".

A WikiLeaks tweet said, "The Modi "incorruptible" quote comes from.Manoharsinh."

Owen's note in the cable also said, "Modi is clearly not going to apologize or
back down on the violence of 2002 (but).We believe Sinhji's comment on Modi are
indeed accurate."

After the cable was released in 2011, the BJP had reportedly boasted of Modi's
honesty and Gujarat's development model.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


                             696 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

APOLOGISTS FOR THESE THUGS SHOULD HANG THEIR HEADS IN SHAME

LENGTH: 1246 words


LINDSAY JOHNS

The riots in London over the past three days may have been shocking, but much of
the response to these appalling events has been all too predictable.

As the smoke clears over the wrecked buildings and the torched vehicles, a
growing army of apologists has indulged in an orgy of excuse-making for the
widespread violence.

We are told the rioters have been motivated by their rage at inequality,
deprivation and unemployment. Some have blamed police brutality; others have
wailed about 'Tory cuts' or the closure of youth clubs.

But such explanations are as misguided as they're immoral. In reality, there is
no justification for the outbreak of carnage that's gripped the capital.

Savage

What we witnessed was despicable. Far from representing a political act, it was
nothing more than a mixture of mindless criminality and opportunistic
materialism.

In 1883, the evangelical church minister Andrew Mearns wrote a ground-breaking
book, The Bitter Cry Of Outcast London, which, in stomach-churning detail,
exposed the poverty and squalor that existed in the heart of the late-Victorian
capital.

Those hand-wringing over today's riots would have us believe the explosion of
savage behaviour represents the modern cry of a disaffected people, struggling
in the inner city under the yoke of economic and state oppression.

But such a narrative of victimhood is absurd. There was no 'legitimate
grievance' behind the mass thuggery, only feral mob rule which should have no
place in a civilised society.

The shrill defence of the rioters is an affront to the thousands of people who
live in straitened circumstances in the inner city, yet who did not loot or set
vehicles ablaze or hurl missiles at the police.

Indeed, the biggest victims of the frenzied mayhem are the law-abiding,
hard-working citizens , black, white and Asian , of the areas including
Tottenham, Brixton, Hackney, Lewisham and Streatham (where I live) who have been
made homeless, had their businesses destroyed or their livelihoods ruined in
these senseless and disgusting attacks.

They are the ones who have suffered the greatest injustice, not the bullying
youths rampaging through the streets.

There are, of course, concerns about the incident in Tottenham which triggered
the riot, when a man who had a reputation as a gang leader and drug dealer was
shot dead in a clash with the police.

An investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission is under way.

The anguish of the dead man's family is understandable, but what is deplorable
is that local speculation about the conduct of the police has spiralled so
wildly out of control.

This combustible hysteria has no sense of proportion, no moral imperative. Why
has the same fury not been displayed over the mounting catalogue of
black-on-black knifings and shootings in our cities?

Why were the police the target of loud demands for vengeance, while gangland
killers are rarely the subject of such outrage?

Warped

Tragically, young black people are using guns to kill each other with alarming
regularity, but very few people 'in the community' , save distraught relatives ,
kick up a fuss.

Yet when the police kill an alleged crack-dealing gangster, the so-called
'dispossessed' of our inner cities go crazy.

This is by no means to downplay the tragedy for the dead man's family, but the
eagerness of community leaders to focus all indignation against the police,
while ignoring the lethal realities of gang feuds, displays a warped double
standard which is hindering the acceptance of moral responsibility.

In truth, the rioting has nothing to do with any concept of justice and
everything to do with a twisted sense of power and spirit of brute materialism.

There is no rationale that can legitimise the desire to set a bus ablaze or
smash in shop windows. The portrayal in some quarters of the rioters as
idealistic heroes striving for the rights of their community, as though they
were latter-day followers of Gandhi or Martin Luther King, is as preposterous as
it is blatantly untrue.

These young people wholly buy into a shallow culture of instant gratification.
Oblivious to traditional ideas of hard work and social obligation, they seek to
grab what they want, whether it be a new set of trainers from JD Sports or a
flat-screen TV from Currys.

For all such condemnation, however, it is important to maintain a sense of
perspective. The police may have made more than 100 arrests in the past couple
of days, but most youths in the inner city have no involvement with violence
whatsoever. The thuggery is confined to a hard-core minority.

In my spare time, I work as a volunteer mentor in Peckham, an even more deprived
neighbourhood than Tottenham. Most of the young people in my scheme wear
hoodies, but all are fine, upstanding citizens.

Not one is in a gang or involved in criminal activity, and all are seeking to
better their lives through education. Unlike the rioters and looters, all of
them have a fully functioning moral compass.

We should also recognise that this kind of mindless aggression, masquerading as
protest, is not confined to the world of inner-city black youths. Over the past
year, we have witnessed disgraceful scenes on the streets of the capital, where
the perpetrators have largely been white, privileged middle-class students.

Charlie Gilmour, son of a millionaire rock star, is a symbol of this pattern,
having been jailed for 16 months following his conviction for violence during
the tuition fees protest last December. Gilmour's swinging from a Union Jack on
the Cenotaph was just as great an insult to public decency as Saturday night's
looting in Tottenham.

Nor is vicious materialism by any means solely the preserve of black youth
culture. Thuggery knows no colour. We have seen plenty of white youths joining
in the looting, too.

In fact, we see this nasty, self-centred mentality all round us , reflected in
the greed of bankers over their bonuses or MPs over their expenses. The
pernicious spirit of instant gratification and ruthless entitlement transcends
race and class, undermining the codes of morality that once built our
civilisation.

That is why these riots are different to the unrest that gripped Britain in the
early Eighties, epitomised by the flames of Toxteth and Brixton.

Then, there were justified grievances about social exclusion and police
heavy-handedness. But none of that applies today.

Discipline

Things have vastly improved for ethnic minorities since then. Job and
educational opportunities are far greater. Contrary to what the Left claim,
public resources have been poured into the inner cities.

After the Brixton riots in 1985 there were several regeneration schemes and
today Peckham has a state-of-the-art library and new art gallery. The quality of
the social housing stock has been transformed.

Attitudes among the police are also much better, as shown by Operation Trident,
a highly successful community-driven initiative to combat gun crime within the
black community.

But none of these changes will help if the worst aspects of youth culture are
not tackled.

Too many young people will never reach their potential if they are allowed to
remain in their mental ghettoes.

Education unequivocally provides the best path for young people out of the
ghetto, both geographical and mental.

That also means providing guidance and discipline, rather than pandering to
their shallow teenage whims.

It is our own politically correct cowardice that has been the greatest force
behind their marginalisation.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             697 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             March 24, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Letter: Your Shout - Villa flops should be ashamed of shambles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1458 words


WHAT a disgrace. Some of the Villa players who failed to turn up atAnfieldought
tobeashamed of themselves.

In particular Ashley Young, Gareth Barry and Emile Heskey.

Young's body language was one of 'I'm too good to be in this side'.

Well, Ashley, you have only got to look at the England squad to see how good you
are because you are not in it.

To have Barry as captain after the things he keeps saying about where his future
lies next season is an insult to the likes of Stiliyan Petrov, who should be
skipper.

His performances, along with Luke Young, have been monumental this season.

I could have sworn Barry was already playing for Liverpool on Sunday the amount
of times he passed to a red shirt.

Heskey? Well I'm 53 years old and I could have done what he did - which was
nothing.

It's time to stop protecting these over-paid prima-donnas who think they are
better than they are.

They are wrapped in cotton wool then sent off to a luxurious break in Dubai
because they are shattered, then come back and perform like they have over the
last two games.

Well they want to be in some of our positions - on three and four days a week,
not knowing if your job will be there next week and with no holidays to look
forward to - then they may have a right to feel sorry for themselves.

Admittedly, we have done well this season and I'm not jumping on the bandwagon
but we can't carry on living on that assumption with eight games still to go.

O'Neill has to shake it up with whatever he has got because the personnel on the
bench could not have performed any worse than most of the team who put on the
shirts at Anfield.

With 24 points still to play for it is not over yet but they have to want it,
roll their sleeves up and fight for the cause.

But, unfortunately, I'm not sure all of them want to.

K CLAYTON, Witton MARTIN O'Neill is definitely the man for Villa. No question,
come the summer the players coming in must be top quality.

Villa must fill the positions with players who can play the relevant positions.
For instance, Reo- Coker at full-back, he's a rubbish defender and when he
overlaps he inevitably hits the opposing player when trying to cross the ball.

He hasn't delivered for Villa since his arrival. Carlos Cueller is rubbish.

With doubt over Martin Laursen's future, an experienced centre-back is essential
to allow our two youngsters to develop.

Emile Heskey is a good target man, who doesn't score enough goals.

On the other hand, John Carew (when fit) is the ideal leader of the line.

He scores goals and creates them. If either player had someone with a
footballing brain alongside him up front, Villa might still rescue a season that
is fast slipping away.

I am constantly hearing about Gabby Agbonlahor's electric pace but that alone
does not make a top player.

He's one-footed and can't, or is frightened to, head the ball properly and he
doesn't have a footballing brain.

He rarely chases back with any conviction. Take his speed away and all that is
left is a very ordinary player.

I'm sure some people will say he's only young but, remember, he's been at Villa
since he was a kid.

Agbonlahor won't be at Villa in three seasons' time. He may prove me wrong, but
I doubt it.

B ANDERSON, via email I WOULD just like to say a big thank-you to all of my
critics following my comments about Martin O'Neill in this column last week.

Clearly the performance and result at Anfield shows I have been wrong all along
about his team selection, tactical awareness and buying policy.

It has finally proved beyond all reasonable doubt that we can play for two
seasons without a recognised right-back playing in that position and we didn't
need to strengthen the squad in January and we can achieve success with one of
the smallest squads in the Premiership.

I have seen the light now.

P CRAYTHORNE, Kingstanding I AM writing in reference to Martin O Neill's
comments regarding the 'new-age' Villa fans wanting too much.

I think I speak for the vast majority of Villa fans who believe we have one of
the best chairmen and one of the best managers in the league.

My family and I are not new-age Villa fans. We have season tickets and have had
for many years.

We have supported Villa through the many bad times and we also travel to many
away games, both in Europe, and at home.

We went to Denmark and Germany to watch Villa play this season and I was very
disappointed to see the team that was put out in Germany, so my heart goes out
to the loyal fans who felt they were let down in Russia.

Most fans have to work very hard to watch their heroes play, especially in
today's economic climate.

I, and many many other Villa fans, truly believed we had a very good chance of
reaching the UEFA Cup final and feel let down that it was thrown away - not by a
bad performance but by team selection.

What we would like to know from Martin O'Neill is: if the same situation occurs
next season, will the outcome be the same?

As for the booing off the field of Gabby, while wrong it is every fan's right.
They pay to enter the ground, and part of their money goes some way to paying
for these superstars.

I felt very hurt by O'Neill's comments because there are a lot of fans who feel
as I do and I can assure him we are not new-age fans.

If we really want to break into the top four on a regular basis we will have to
spend more money.

If the likes of Liverpool can challenge in the Champions League and also on the
home front then we should also be able to.

M JAMES via email YET another poor performance by Villa.

Is it just me or is Martin O'Neill not only ruining our chance of Champions
League football but also bringing what started as a fantastic season to no more
than a below-par one?

Once again he has fielded a team who do not know what their role is. Luke Young
on the left, Reo-Coker on the right?

Why?

Didn't O'Neill see what the rest of us witnessed against Spurs when they ran
riot with us down the wings?

What happens against Liverpool? The same - only worse.

In the past few weeks I have expressed my concern at the way O'Neill is
embarrassing us but when is it going to stop?

The way things are going we will be lucky to get sixth place in the Premier
League.

Why has O'Neill bought Nicky Shorey if he's not even going to play him? He is a
left-footer who plays in the back four. Doesn't O'Neill realise that?

The next game is at Old Trafford. It's frightening to think what will happen to
us there yet us fans still stick with the team.

It's a shame the manager doesn't think of the fans.

I have said it before and I will say it again: O'Neill has no plan B and he
cannot handle big-name players.

D GARSTANG, Castle Bromwich AFTER reading the letters about Villa I cannot help
but feel we are going through a biblical epic.

First the Messiah comes, in Martin O'Neill. Then three years later, at
Christmas, the miracle happened: we were top of the hardest league in the world.

Then, lo and behold, Easter approaches and certain people want their 30 pieces
of silver.

What a fickle lot you are. Leave Martin alone and remember: Rome wasn't built in
a day.

M HANDSAKER, Great Barr AFTER watching that Blues garbage again I, for one, am
treating that result as a point gained as we were lucky to get the point.

If I was the Norwich manager I would be gutted we did not come away with all
three points.

So let's luck at the positives: we finished the game with a point we didn't
deserve, although we should be looking to put away relegation fodder like
Norwich.

Promotion or not, we have six games to go under McClueless and then we will see
what the board are really made of.

Promotion is irrelevant as McLeish needs to go at the end of the season.

BLUESBROTHER, via email FOUR Blues shots on target on Saturday. That's one shot
on target every 22.5 minutes, really poor for a team chasing promotion.

Our season average is three shots on target per game.

If you don't shoot or head the ball on target you are not going to score goals.

Come on McLeish, get it sorted.

CLIFTONBLUE, via email I'M still waiting to see the 'dynamic' Blues that Alex
McLeish promised us.

What a dreadful performance against Norwich. We were back to our bad old ways
again.

I thought we were lucky to get a point, to be honest.

The worrying thing is we should be easily disposing of teams like Norwich, who
are fighting for survival.

Yet, once again, we make it hard work for ourselves.

The game against Wolves is massive but I don't think we'll win.

I think we should forget about trying to win the title and focus on getting that
automatic promotion spot.

We don't want to get distracted by trying to go up as champions.

Second spot will do nicely.

K SMALL, Chelmsley Wood

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Martin O'Neill.
 Blues boss Alex McLeish.
 Villa winger Ashley Young's body language said 'I'm too good to be in this
side', says letter writer K Clayton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                             698 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              The Mississauga News

                            March 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Trip of a lifetime

BYLINE: Jill Collins

SECTION: COLUMN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615  words


We were whisked out of Egypt, away from the storms raging in Cairo, on a United
States (U.S.) evacuation flight.

We ran for the taxis upon hearing the cry from the U.S. consular official: "Meet
at the top in 10 minutes if you are coming with us to Jordan."

After a couple of weeks touring the ancient land, we left behind our new
Egyptian friends to cope with the revolution.

This was the trip of a lifetime, and that my father agreed to experience it with
me made it more special. In early January, we embarked on what was to be a
three-and-a-half-week tour. We experienced the sights and sounds, but the
greater experience was seeing a revolution in the making.

Our tour group of 22 was the last to be ushered through the Cairo Egyptian
Museum. It closed on Jan. 26. As we were led onto our bus, riot police gathered
in great numbers in the square and on the bridge, anticipating trouble. Our
small group didn't properly understand the implications of "protests" in the
Egyptian political realm. It was only through lively discussions with our tour
director that we understood the implications of a large gathering, how
precarious and dangerous this was and how momentous the outcome when the
protests were allowed to continue.

We were witnesses to history, both ancient and new.

And as our Nile cruise/tour neared an end, the situation worsened. We were in
Luxor at the temple the day tear gas and fires erupted, our cruiser's berth only
a few minutes away from the National Party headquarters that was looted and
burned. We were safe on the cruiser, diligently kept from harm by tour and boat
staff and Tourism Police.

Still, we were becoming increasingly nervous as to how we'd make it home once
the tour ended. Nobody wanted to go near Cairo's airport, being witness to the
scenes on TV of thousands of stranded travellers and other issues.

We knew our tour company was working on flights, but we weren't yet privy to
details. As things remained out of our control, we did our best to enjoy our
remaining days on the Nile and the limited excursions we were permitted to take.

The mood changed drastically on Feb. 1, when the protests in Cairo turned to
riots. U.S. Consular staff made their way to the hotels and Nile cruisers in
Aswan. They ensured word got out that evacuation flights were underway. They
said they'd be back in the morning with details.

That night, our tour company also had information. They'd secured seats in the
morning from Aswan back to Cairo and were working to then have us flown to
Athens. So, we had two options.

The next morning, a Consular official explained a flight was leaving immediately
to Amman, Jordan and would cost $700. My father and I gathered our things and
headed for the taxi. Others chose the Cairo route.

Soon thereafter, we'd made it out of Egypt with minimal hassle. Another 30
hours, via Frankfurt, and we were home.

I'm haunted by the memory of our tour director and his family in Cairo. He'd
shared with me that he had been up until 3 a.m. on the phone with his two little
sons and his wife the night the riots broke out. He tried to reassure them all
would be well as they heard gunshots outside their apartment.

The professionalism and caring he exuded in staying with us, ensuring we were
safe, was overwhelming. How desperate he must have been to be home with his
family when, instead, he was hundreds of miles away babysitting the 22 of us.

To the people of Egypt, we wish you well. We feel connected to you, having had
you share with us your lives and your beautiful land.

It was the trip of a lifetime, one I'll never forget - just not quite in the way
I'd envisioned.

Jill Collins is a Mississauga resident. Her father, Barry, lives in Cobourg.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             699 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Durham Region

                             March 21, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Cobourg resident recounts experience in Egypt

BYLINE: Karen Longwell, klongwell@northumberlandnews.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724  words


COBOURG -- It started as a dream tour of Egypt for a Cobourg resident and his
daughter, but ended abruptly when political unrest took hold of the Middle
Eastern country this January.

Cobourg resident Barry Collins and his daughter Jill Collins, who lives in
Mississauga, left for Egypt on Jan. 19 and had planned to stay until Feb. 9,
said Mr. Collins. They managed to get out of the country with the help of
American government officials on Feb. 2.

Mr. Collins had been to Egypt before but his daughter had a lifelong dream to
take the trip, he said.

"She always had this desire from being a kid to go Egypt and see the
pyramids...the strange thing about that is we never did see the pyramids," he
said.

The pyramids were scheduled for the end of the tour as a highlight but the civil
unrest meant the pair left early, said Mr. Collins.

The first hint of trouble came when the tour group of 22 people Mr. Collins and
his daughter were part of was suddenly rushed through the Cairo Egyptian Museum
on Jan. 26. When the group left the museum, they could see the a crowd gathering
in Tahrir Square, he said.

"There was a lot police around (and) police trucks so we realized that something
pretty bad is about to start happening here," said Mr. Collins.

The tour moved on to the city of Luxor to start a Nile cruise. On the boat, Mr.
Collins watched TV and saw the uprising in Tahrir Square where they had just
left.

"We realized we had just missed it," he said.

At that point nobody wanted to go near Cairo's airport, being witness to the
scenes on TV of thousands of stranded travellers and other issues, said Jill
Collins in her account published in the Mississauga News.

Another sign of troubles was in Luxor when a crowd set fire to a police station.
The tour members didn't see the fire but saw the station shortly before then
after the fire, said Mr. Collins.

"That was actually the only real scene that we saw that clearly mobs had been
rioting," Mr. Collins.

When the tour boat reached the city of Aswan, the city was packed with tour
boats, he said.

"All the docks were jammed with these boats," he said.

He thought the boats stayed in Aswan to be away from the problems in other parts
of Egypt.

The tour group flew to Abbusinbel, a famous temple site, and the trip was one of
the last flights allowed anywhere, said Mr. Collins.

"The government declared by that time that all internal flights would stop," he
said.

The tour group the returned to the boat, which served as their hotel.

Although the tour group was safe, they had didn't have a reliable way to
communicate the information to family and friends at home, said Mr. Collins.

"How do we tell people we are sitting on our wonderful little ship in Aswan,
being fed like kings?" said Mr. Collins.

Family back home was concerned, Mr. Collins later learned, but the tour group
was able to communicate briefly to home from the boat.

The tour group members discussed how they would get out of Egypt and explored
different possibilities to leave the country. On Feb. 1, when the protests in
Cairo turned to riots, U.S. consular staff made their way to the hotels and Nile
cruisers in Aswan, said Ms. Collins. At the same time, the tour company also
secured seats in the morning from Aswan back to Cairo, he said.

Mr. Collins said American embassy staff from Khartoum, Sudan came aboard the
tour boat with a word that they were arranging transport from Aswan for the
members of the tour group. The travellers were glad to hear the news.

"When the Americans turned up, you can't believe the relief that we all felt.
This was like a balloon being deflated," said Mr. Collins.

The next morning, the group was told a flight on a Royal Jordanian Airlines
plane was leaving immediately to Amman, Jordan and would cost $700. Mr. Collins
and his daughter decided to take it and once in Jordan, found a flight to
Frankfurt, Germany and finally back to Canada.

Ms. Collins told the Mississauga News she still thinks of the Egyptian people.

"I'm haunted by the memory of our tour director and his family in Cairo," she
said. "He'd shared with me that he had been up until 3 a.m. on the phone with
his two little sons and his wife the night the riots broke out. He tried to
reassure them all would be well as they heard gunshots outside their apartment."

Despite the trouble, Mr. Collins said he would definitely return to Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             700 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Frontier Post (Pakistan)

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday

US told unilateral actions unacceptable

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, Oct. 4 -- Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani on Monday said the
government had always reacted to the negative messages of United States (US) and
after the May 2 incident he told Secretary of State Hillary Clinton that
unilateral actions like Abbottabad were unacceptable. Responding to various
points raised by Leader of the Opposition Chaudhary Nisar Ali Khan, the Prime
Minister told the National Assembly that he had warned the US in 2009 that
electricity shortage in Pakistan could result in riots and if they (US) wanted
friendship with the latter they should help resolve its energy issue. Prime
Minister Gilani said that Pakistan was in more of a need of civil nuclear
technology deal, while the US signed the agreement with India.He said he could
have summoned a joint sitting of Parliament on the issue but he opted to call an
all parties conference so that the participation of political parties, who had
boycotted the previous polls, could be ensured on this important matter.

The Prime Minister said if some political parties were neglected in the APC that
could be an error. "We had invited political parties from Balochistan but some
of them excused from participation while some of them told us that they were
morally with us," he said.Appreciating the role of political parties, the Prime
Minister said that the unanimous resolution of all parties conference sent a
good message to the world that the Pakistani nation was united on integrity and
national issues of the country.He said the implementation of the resolutions of
Parliament would be ensured. A parliamentary committee has been constituted to
monitor the implementation of these resolutions, he added.He said the Parliament
was supreme and the army could not play the role assigned for the political
parties. The Parliament has made policies and will be making the same, he
stressed.He said that instructions have been issued to resolve the issue of
circular debt, which is causing electricity shortages.An inter-ministerial
committee headed by Finance Minister has held numerous meetings to resolve the
issue of payments to various departments and the provincial governments will
also be consulted to find a solution. The inter-ministerial committee will
present its recommendations to the federal cabinet soon, he added.About the law
and order situation of Karachi, the Prime Minister said he chaired a provincial
cabinet meeting in the Sindh capital. It was the mandate of provincial
government to maintain the law and order and he had directed that an across the
board action should be taken against criminals without consideration of party
affiliations, he added.Karachi is peaceful now because of the government actions
without any discrimination, he said.The Prime Minister said Karachi was
extremely important as it was the economic hub and without economic stability
there could not be political stability.Gilani said he visited the flood hit
districts in Sindh province and directed all the government representatives to
provide relief to the affected people.He said after the damage need assessment
the rehabilitation of affected people would be started. The Prime Minister
assured the House that the next elections would be held in a free and fair
manner as the Pakistan People's Party did not desire to come into power from the
back door.The government is extending full support to the Public Accounts
Committee of the National Assembly, he added.About the restructuring of public
sector organizations, he said eight organizations, including the Pakistan
International Airlines and Pakistan Steel Mills had been identified and report
in that regard would also be placed before the parliament.The Prime Minister
said the politicians should correct their perception about corruption as various
democratic governments were removed in the past on such charges. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Frontier Post. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             701 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                  Bar & Bench

                          August 20, 2014 6:30 AM EST

Reupped Roundup- August 20, 2014

LENGTH: 246  words


2G trial: Bail granted to A. Raja, Dayalu Ammal and Kanimozhi

Special CBI judge, OP Saini granted bail to former telecom minster
(http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/2g-case-court-grants-bails-to-dayalu-amma
l/article6334518.ece?homepage=true), A Raja, as well as DMK Chief M.
Karunanidhi's wife, Dayalu Ammal, and Kanimozhi. However, the judge refused
Ammal's plea seeking a discharge from the case on the grounds of unsoundness of
mind.

Former PM Manmohan Singh immune from claims related to '84 riots rules US court

A US court, hearing a suit against ex-PM Manmohan Singh, held that the former PM
enjoyed immunity
(http://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/manmohan-singh-immune-from-some-claims
-of-sikh-riots-us-judge/article1-1254009.aspx) from actions that took place
during his time as Prime Minister. However, this immunity would not be
applicable with respect to actions taken during his time as Finance Minister.
The court was hearing a suit that claimed Manmohan Singh had supported the
prosecution of the Sikh community.

Law to scrap RTOs soon says Nitin Gadkari

Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister of road transport and highways, recently stated
that the Central Government was already in the process of bringing in a law that
would scrap regional transport offices
(http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/RTOs-will-be-scrapped-soon-says-Gadkar
i/articleshow/40383360.cms) (RTO). The minister said that an "efficient
alternative" would be put in place in the next few months.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


             Copyright 2014 Bar & Bench, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             702 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             October 3, 2014 Friday

Why we should not be pessimistic about PM Narendra Modi's US visit

BYLINE: Jaideep Prabhu

LENGTH: 1347  words


Even before the wheels of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Air India One left
American soil, commentators have dismissed his meeting with US businessmen,
senators, and President Barack Obama as more pageantry than substance. This
impetuous judgment, however, is either terribly naive or deliberately
pessimistic.

Indeed, Modi did not return with a Percentages Agreement or a trillion-dollar
aid package - one wonders if even those would have satisfied his critics - but
to pass off the Indian prime minister's trip as pageantry entirely misses the
history of Indo-US relations and the situation the two democracies find
themselves in. For that matter, no Indian prime ministerial visit to any country
comes to mind wherein agreements were made that altered the course of history;
the announcement of the Indo-US nuclear deal during Manmohan Singh's visit in
July 2005 is perhaps the sole exception and that was arguably an entirely
American initiative.

The unseen agenda of Modi's meeting with Obama after his visit to the United
Nations was damage control. After a positive start to better relations under
President George W Bush and Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, relations
between India and the United States began to fray during the tenure of the
United Progressive Alliance (UPA). Over the decade of UPA rule, India-US ties
sank to their lowest since the end of the Cold War despite the resumption of
civil nuclear cooperation by the international community with India.

It is easy to hold the Indo-US nuclear deal up as a shining example of close
strategic relations between the world's two largest democracies now, but the
negotiations over the path-breaking agreement were a trying period. The treaty
was ratified by the Indian parliament with great difficulty and only after a
cash-for-votes scandal rocked the UPA.

Since then, India's nuclear civil liability law (2010) has effectively blocked
the expansion of nuclear energy in the country as no firm, including India's own
Nuclear Power Corporation of India, was willing to bear the burden of supplier's
liability. The United States, who had strongly supported India in the Nuclear
Suppliers Group (NSG) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), was
left out in the cold as their hopes for an abiding nuclear relationship with
India faltered.

Indian defence purchases from the US were also thought to be a sign of warming
relations. Although an improvement from the days of the Cold War, Delhi's
defence equipment procurement has been ad hoc and was initially hindered by the
lack of an adequate legal and operational framework between the two countries.
The US lost out on the Indian Air Force's tender for 126 medium multi-role
combat aircraft and Washington was hesitant to sell India its Javelin anti-tank
missile until Delhi began considering the Israeli Spike.

A few deals were indeed signed, giving India the F414 engine for its
quasi-indigenously manufactured Light Combat Aircraft,  the C-17 Globemaster
III, the C-130J Super Hercules, the AH-64 Apache assault helicopter, the P-8I
Neptune, and other weapons systems and missiles. However, despite their high
dollar value, these purchases were seen as merely transactional and did little
to reverse the drift that was increasingly being felt by officials in Washington
and Delhi.

The Obama White House has always been accused of allowing US relations with
India to slide after the previous administration's persistent wooing of Delhi.
Whether there is some merit to Delhi's complaint or whether the urgent crowded
out the important in Washington, the optimism and energy in the US-India
relationship waned rapidly during Manmohan Singh's second term as prime
minister.

Several crises around the world - the South China Sea, the Caucasus, North
Africa, and the Middle East - captured the US mind share while India boosted its
welfare spending, failed to deliver on economic reforms, neglected its
infrastructure, was mired in corruption, and instituted bizarre tax policies
that chased business away from its shores. There was little reason for the US to
look to India as a valuable partner except for the hope that the South Asian
country would get its act together and arrest its descent into chaos.

In February 2012, the Centre for Policy Research released a document titled
'Non-Alignment 2.0'. The report, put together by a small team of former
government officials, retired military men, academics, businessmen, and
journalists, was unfortunately titled in that it recast Indian foreign policy in
the same old Nehruvian mould widely considered to be a failure. Furthermore,
Nehru's non-alignment was usually soft on Moscow and made Washington the target
of its ire. The release of Non-Alignment 2.0 was hardly a sensible move,
especially at a time when the US and India were trying to move past casual
indifference and towards a strategic relationship.

In December 2013, the arrest of India's Acting Consul General in New York,
Devyani Khobragade, sparked a heated diplomatic tit-for-tat between the US and
India. After the strip search of the Indian diplomat was explained away as
"procedure", Delhi similarly enforced Indian law strictly and removed concrete
barricades around the US embassy that were encroaching on a public roadway.
Coming in the wake of a recent deadly assault on the US embassy in Tripoli,
Washington was incensed at what it saw as Indian petulance putting its officials
in danger. Ultimately, the US ambassador to India, Nancy Powell resigned and the
post remains vacant (though a new appointee has just been nominated and awaiting
Congressional confirmation).

For all the newspaper columns painting a rosy picture of US-India relations, the
reality was far more dreary. If anything, it was the potential of a genuine
relationship that kept the idea on life support until sunnier days. The new
prime minister had the difficult task of rekindling a relationship that had
accumulated more than its fair share of cynicism in both capitals over the past
five years.

There is, of course, Modi's personal baggage - the refusal of a visa to him by
the United States in 2005. This was compounded by the issuance of a summons by a
federal court in New York for his role in the 2002 Gujarat riots - was the US
serious about a flowering relationship with India or not? Admirably, the Indian
prime minister has not allowed these personal slight to obstruct national
interest; he has gone to Washington and delivered the loud and clear message
that India is open for business again.

During Modi's stay in the US, he took the time to meet with business leaders as
well as elected officials. This was a smart move, given that the US does not
hold sovereign wealth the way Japan or China do and the president himself would
not be able to do much more than encourage American business to invest in India.
Modi has promised to push forward on economic reforms and eased the visa norms
for Americans to come to India. This small step will have a greater footfall in
terms of investments than is apparent immediately.

On top of the moribund relationship Modi inherited from the previous
administration, there are indeed disagreements of substance between India and
the US - nuclear proliferation, Iran, Pakistan, food stockpiling, intellectual
property rights, and the environment to name a few. Not all of these require the
highest executive attention and will be hopefully handled at their appropriate
levels over the next five years.

Modi's mission, however, was far simpler and yet more difficult - to convince
the world's largest economy and greatest military power that India was ready to
talk turkey once again. If pageantry was what would sell the message, then that
was what was to be done.

Jaideep Prabhu spends most of his time avoiding work; when not married to his
books, he likes to cook, sail, and scuba. A great admirer of Hatshepsut, Jaideep
refuses to live in the 21st century. He grew up in the Middle East and Europe.
When forced into wage slavery, he is a doctoral student in History at Vanderbilt
University. He tweets at @orsoraggiante.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             703 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           February 7, 2015 Saturday

No, President Obama, Gandhi would not have been shocked

BYLINE: Harini Calamur

LENGTH: 1140  words


Rather than wasting time on emotions, what Gandhi would have done was what he
always did; direct action, appealing to the conscience of the people to come
together and defeat hatred.

Each year, since 1953, on the first Thursday in February, the President of the
United States of America takes part and leads the National Prayer Breakfast. It
is an annual ritual attended by politicians, administrators, media, religious
leaders, and other members of society. They wax eloquent about giving, sharing,
tolerance and other lovely values that remain largely forgotten for the next 364
days. This year was no different. President Obama addressed the gathered crowd,
and spoke about faith and values; and in particular about

"the degree to which we've seen professions of faith used both as an instrument
of great good, but also twisted and misused in the name of evil."

President Obama, then went on to talk about how faith not only gives strength to
achieve, but also to selflessly serve others. But, when one talks about the
power of faith for 'good work', it is impossible to ignore the other, more
warped, image of faith; where the distortion of faith leads to a almost
nihilistic approach to the world. Faith imposed by the barrel of the gun. The
President acknowledges this and says:

But we also see faith being twisted and distorted, used as a wedge -- or, worse,
sometimes used as a weapon.  From a school in Pakistan to the streets of Paris,
we have seen violence and terror perpetrated by those who profess to stand up
for faith, their faith, professed to stand up for Islam, but, in fact, are
betraying it.  We see ISIL, a brutal, vicious death cult that, in the name of
religion, carries out unspeakable acts of barbarism  -- terrorizing religious
minorities like the Yezidis, subjecting women to rape as a weapon of war, and
claiming the mantle of religious authority for such actions.

We see sectarian war in Syria, the murder of Muslims and Christians in Nigeria,
religious war in the Central African Republic, a rising tide of anti-Semitism
and hate crimes in Europe, so often perpetrated in the name of religion.

One of the problems with seeing such large scale damage caused by bigots
claiming to act in the name of religion is that, we see a religions through the
distorted lens of the hater, not the loving lens of the devout. And, while
religious bigotry is not a new thing, the pervasive nature of mass media ensures
that we see only the bigoted part of religion in all its brutality, illogic and
intolerance; and ignore the billions who follow religions in their true spirit.
President Obama refers to this:

Humanity has been grappling with these questions throughout human history.  And
lest we get on our high horse and think this is unique to some other place,
remember that during the Crusades and the Inquisition, people committed terrible
deeds in the name of Christ.  In our home country, slavery and Jim Crow all too
often was justified in the name of Christ.  Michelle and I returned from India
-- an incredible, beautiful country, full of magnificent diversity -- but a
place where, in past years, religious faiths of all types have, on occasion,
been targeted by other peoples of faith, simply due to their heritage and their
beliefs -- acts of intolerance that would have shocked Gandhiji, the person who
helped to liberate that nation.

It is the last set of lines that has caused a furore in India. My issue with the
statement is less what President Obama has said - he has the right to his
opinions - and more an issue with the assertion about the Mahatma.

Gandhiji would not have been shocked by religious intolerance. He lived in a
time that was far more brutal and intolerant than the world we inhabit today. He
lived through the first world war, the independence movement, the second world
war and the partition of India. He saw the aftermath of firing on peaceful
worshippers in Jallianwalla; policemen being burnt alive at Chauri Chaura, the
holocaust, the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and brutal Hindu Muslim riots
across India that scarred the psyche. The brutality and carnage that was on
display during this period, has not been matched since. If you remember your
history right, while the rest of India was celebrating Independence, Mahatma
Gandhi was fasting to end riots in the name of religion.

In each of our cultures, there have been great acts of courage, belief and
faith. There have been people who have fought relentlessly to end the tyranny of
men over other men (and women). In each of our cultures and nations, there have
been those who have upheld these values, and there are those who choose,
willfully, to restrict rights of others based on religion. I am sure that Thomas
Jefferson would have been appalled at the hounding of Edward Snowden. I am
certain that Martin Luther King Jr. would have been saddened by the state of
race relations in the USA, especially the impunity with which the police kill
young, unarmed black men. Margret Sanger, the pioneer of birth control, would
have been devastated at the fact that in 2015, women in parts of America have no
control over their own body and male politicians choose whether women should
have access to birth control (including abortion). Roosevelt, the father of the
New Deal, that got the USA out of recession and back to work, would have
probably joined the Occupy movement. I am not even sure what the founding
fathers of the United States would have made of Gitmo. And, while these may seem
like random sentences linked together to prove a point, they are not. These acts
derive from the USA moving more and more towards religious conservatism, and
nationalism that is derived from it. In many of these cases God, Nation,
Patriotism are tied up in one tangled knot and is difficult to unravel. And
these need to be separated, to make society a better place.  And, this is the
lesson India can learn from the USA - not to mix up our various identities by
putting them in the blender to create a giant all encompassing identity.

Would Gandhi have been shocked by what is happening in India? I don't think so.
He would have been saddened. But rather than wasting time on emotions, what
Gandhi would have done was what he always did; direct action, appealing to the
conscience of the people to come together and defeat hatred. The reason he was
successful was because he enabled people to become better/greater than what was
expected of them. And, that is what makes the Gandhi experiment unique. Not that
he was non-violent or practised ahimsa. What made Gandhi a Mahatma, is that he
raised the consciousness of the nation towards that mode of conflict resolution.
And, while riots are covered, and hatred is amplified, there are a lot more
people working towards rebuilding the peace, healing the wounds, and rebuilding
trust.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             704 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

Obama calls for tolerance in Arab world and issues warning to Iran

BYLINE: Julian Borgerguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1145 words

ABSTRACT

President warns Iran time is running out in UN general assembly speech aimed at
resetting relations between US and Arab world

FULL TEXT

President Barack Obama today sought to reset US relations with the Arab world in
the wake of anti-American riots triggered by an amateur video insulting the
prophet Mohamed, that led to the death of the US ambassador to Libya, Chris
Stevens.

Obama used his speech to the UN general assembly, expected to be his last major
foreign policy address before the November elections, to pay a personal tribute
to Stevens, highlighting the murdered diplomat's passion for Arab culture and
support for democracy, and present it a model for American-Arab relations.

The president also restated the US position on the Iran nuclear programme: that
there was still time for diplomacy, but not "unlimited time". He also called for
the emergence of a new, democratic and inclusive government in Syria, but
offered no new ideas about how the international community should help attain
that goal, or how the deadlock in the UN security council over Syria might be
broken.

In a landmark speech in Cairo three years ago, Obama promised a "new beginning"
in the relationship between his country and the Islamic world, but that
relationship is now at its lowest point since the start of the Arab spring as a
result of a YouTube video clip made by an Egyptian American insulting the
prophet Mohamed.

The crude 14-minute clip went viral over the summer, triggering furious
anti-American demonstrations across the Middle East and the wider Islamic world.

Obama balanced condemnation of the "crude and disgusting" video, with a
denunciation of the violence that it sparked and a demand for the new Arab
governments to do more to defend American diplomats.

"I have made it clear that the US government had nothing to do with this video,
and I believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our common
humanity," Obama said. " It is an insult not only to Muslims, but to America as
well. We are home to Muslims who worship across our country."

Obama rejected calls from Arab and other Islamic leaders for the YouTube video
to be somehow banned, pointed to US constitutional protections of free speech
and the technical impossibility of controlling such broadcasts.

"[I]n 2012, at a time when anyone with a cell phone can spread offensive views
around the world with the click of a button, the notion that we can control the
flow of information is obsolete. The question, then, is how we respond. And on
this we must agree: there is no speech that justifies mindless violence," he
said. He also criticised double standards in the protection of religion in the
Middle East.

"The future must not belong to those who slander the prophet of Islam. Yet to be
credible, those who condemn that slander must also condemn the hate we see when
the image of Jesus Christ is desecrated, churches are destroyed, or the
Holocaust is denied," the president said.

He also made clear his dissatisfaction with the reaction of some Arab
governments to the wave of anti-American riots. US officials have singled out
the Egyptian president, Mohamed Morsi, in this regard.

"If we are serious about upholding these ideals, it will not be enough to put
more guards in front of an embassy; or to put out statements of regret, and wait
for the outrage to pass. If we are serious about those ideals, we must speak
honestly about the deeper causes of this crisis," he said.

Obama expressed gratitude to the government and people of Libya, after
pro-American protesters seized control of the bases of the extremist militias
implicated in the attacks on the US consulate in Benghazi, but he made it clear
Washington did not believe all the perpetrators had been caught, and left open
the option of taking direct action.

"The attacks on our civilians in Benghazi were attacks on America. We are
grateful for the assistance we received from the Libyan government and the
Libyan people. And there should be no doubt that we will be relentless in
tracking down the killers and bringing them to justice," the president said.

Earlier, the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon issued an unusually stern
denouncement of security council inaction over Syria, which he called "a
regional calamity with global ramifications."

"This is a serious and growing threat to international peace and security which
requires security council action," Ban said. "The international community should
not look the other way as violence spirals out of control."

UN officials said that Ban has become increasingly frustrated by the security
council's deadock over Syria and had decided to speak out in his bluntest speech
to date.

He also called for those responsibility for atrocities in Syria to be held
accountable, noting "there is no statute of limitations for such extreme
violence", and placing most of the blame on the Assad regime. At present,
Russian and Chinese objections are blocking the international criminal court
from launching an investigation into war crimes, and Ban's comments were widely
seen at the UN as a direct rebuke for their obstruction of the machinery of
international justice.

"Brutal human rights abuses continue to be committed, mainly by the government,
but also by opposition groups. Such crimes must not go unpunished," he said. "It
is the duty of our generation to put an end to impunity for international
crimes, in Syria and elsewhere. It is our duty to give tangible meaning to the
responsibility to protect."

The responsibility to protect was a principle adopted by the UN in the 1990s,
stating that the international community to intervene to protect civilian
populations when their states were unwilling or unable to do so.

Ban also had pointed words for two leaders due to speak at the same UN podium
later in the week: Binyamin Netanyahu and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, calling for them
to pull back from the brink of a new Middle East conflict, and to ratchet down
their rhetoric.

"I ... reject both the language of de-legitimisation and threats of potential
military action by one state against another. Any such attacks would be
devastating. The shrill war talk of recent weeks has been alarming," Ban said.
"Leaders have a responsibility to use their voices to lower tensions instead of
raising the temperature and volatility of the moment."

Netanyahu has been successful in displacing the Israel-Palestinian impasse from
the international agenda by repeated threats to take military action against
Iran. But he was warned by Ban that his government's policies in the West Bank
were stoking renewed conflict.

"The two-state solution is the only sustainable option. Yet the door may be
closing, for good. The continued growth of Israeli settlement settlements in the
occupied Palestinian territory seriously undermines efforts toward peace. We
must break this dangerous impasse," Ban said.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             705 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                New Delhi Times

                            October 17, 2016 Monday

New doc shows militarization of US police from the inside

LENGTH: 724  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Oct. 17 -- The documentary "Do Not Resist" provides a timely look at
the state of policing in the United States, from the escalation of SWAT raids to
the unregulated technology police departments are using.

Director Craig Atkinson for over two years traveled around the country shadowing
various police departments in their everyday activities. The film is now playing
in limited release, with weeklong runs launching in Washington, D.C., and Los
Angeles on Friday, and expanding throughout Oct. and Nov .

Atkinson, the cinematographer on the documentary "Detropia," was first intrigued
to pursue the issue of police militarization after seeing the police response to
the Boston Marathon bombing and the military grade equipment they used. He was
struck by how police acted more like an "occupying force," he said.

"I was seeing reports coming out later where people were handcuffed face down on
their front lawn detained, no charges filed, no questions, police officers
entering homes without search warrants," Atkinson said.

It was just different from what he'd known. Atkinson has in some ways been
observing the police his entire life. His father was an officer for 29 years
outside of Detroit and a SWAT member from 1989 to 2002. As a boy, Atkinson would
tag along to training exercises and play hostage. When he got a little older he
would play the role of armed assailant.

"I always had a great deal of respect for the work he was doing," Atkinson said.
"He was a very upstanding officer."

He knew, too, in the War on Terror era that police, and SWAT, were getting a bad
rap and thought it would be a good idea to go behind the scenes and show it as
it really happens- "the full breadth of the SWAT experience."

What he found, however, was not what he expected. In one department, SWAT was
being used for raids over 200 times a year. It was a striking difference to the
experience of his father, who, in a similarly sized department, did 29 search
warrants in 13 years.

"We never found an opportunity where you see the equipment being used in a
situation where you would actually want it used," he said. He thinks something
like the Florida nightclub shooting was one instance where SWAT was in fact used
appropriately.

The issue of the militarization of police in the United States has been vexing
the country for years, most pointedly during the police-shooting protests in
Ferguson, Missouri, where police wore riot gear and deployed tear gas, dogs and
armored vehicles, sometimes pointing assault rifles at protesters.

The ACLU has spoken out against it, and the Obama administration, which defended
the use of military vehicles during the Boston Marathon bombing, subsequently
issued stricter controls over weapons and gear distributed to law enforcement.
But it remains a hot button issue in the country, with some passionately
defending the necessity of riot gear for the protection of officers in dangerous
situations.

In the tense aftermath of a police shooting death in Louisiana, for instance,
Gov. John Bel Edwards said a Baton Rouge police officer had teeth knocked out
with a rock thrown by a protester. He said if officers don't use riot gear, "you
have no defense against that sort of thing."

For his part, Atkinson started filming about a year before the events in
Ferguson. Once that happened, he knew his footage would be timestamped around
that, and there became an urgency to finish.

He chose to present the footage in a verite style. Thus, we hear only from those
either involved in policing or public events like congressional hearings or
community meetings.

People encouraged him to include his father's story (he didn't) or a "voice of
god" narration to guide the audience (also absent). Atkinson says his personal
interjections are not the point.

"Everybody already has an opinion about these issues," Atkinson said. "We're
just showing things, we're letting things unfold."

As the film continues its run throughout the country, he's mainly surprised and
"disheartened" that it remains relevant.

"Here we are years later and it's as timely as it ever could be," he said.

Credit : Associated Press (AP) | Photo Credit : (AP)

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Delhi Times. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 New Delhi Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             706 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 11, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THUNDER IN TEL AVIV

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: About 100,000 Israelis rallied yesterday to oppose a Golan
pullout. The organizers had hoped for a larger turnout. Page A6. (Reuters)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             707 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 8, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Failure in Kosovo

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 83 words



To the Editor:

Re "7 Killed and 9 Hurt in Kosovo Rampage, Worst Since War" (news article, Feb.
5):

It should seem obvious by now, after many months of NATO's occupation of Kosovo,
that NATO is unable to contain and prevent the ethnic violence that has
overwhelmed the province.

NATO's mission has been a failure.

The best thing now is to admit defeat, allow a partition of the Yugoslav
province along ethnic lines and leave.

MICHAEL PRAVICA
Las Vegas, N.M., Feb. 5, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             708 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 18, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Army Breaks Up Beirut Demonstration at U.S. Embassy

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Feb. 17


Popular anger erupted outside the United States Embassy today, a week after
Israel retaliated against Lebanon for guerrilla attacks that killed several
Israeli soldiers. Hundreds of Lebanese students joined with other protesters in
throwing rocks and tomatoes at Lebanese army and police detachments, which
responded with batons, tear gas canisters and high-pressure water hoses.

The protests appeared to have been organized with the help of Hezbollah, the
Iranian-backed Party of God, whose guerrillas have mounted an offensive in
southern Lebanon that has killed seven Israeli soldiers in less than three
weeks. In a fiery speech on Wednesday, the Hezbollah leader, Sheik Hassan
Nasrallah, citing official American statements that supported the Israeli
bombing, called on this nation of 3.5 million people to boycott the United
States ambassador, David Satterfield, whom he described as "the U.S.-Israeli
ambassador in Lebanon."

The embassy protest ended with slight injuries to a handful of students, who
were taken with bloodied faces from the scene, several hundred yards from the
heavily fortified embassy compound in Aukar, a northern suburb of Beirut.

Organizers promised to sustain their campaign, and Lebanese government leaders
added their own momentum by issuing statements condemning Israel and the United
States with equal vehemence for Israeli air strikes that destroyed three power
plants and halved electricity supplies.

Spokesmen for the embassy played down the protests, saying they posed no threat
to the embassy or its staff. "The staff remained calm and confident throughout
the demonstration," an embassy statement said. "We support the right to freedom
and expression and assembly. We look to and have every confidence in the
government of Lebanon's commitment to preserve law and order and protect the
safety of diplomatic missions and personnel."

The official calm appeared to mask at least some degree of anxiety, because even
limited violence directed against American installations was bound to summon up
memories of the violence suffered by Americans in the Lebanese civil war in the
1980's. In 1983, more than 260 Americans died in Hezbollah-directed terrorist
attacks, including truck bombings that destroyed the American Embassy, then
situated on the seafront in western Beirut, and a compound near the airport that
housed a United States Marine detachment. In 1984, a second attack on the
embassy caused nine additional deaths.

Prime Minister Selim al-Hoss issued a statement urging action to restrain Israel
by the United States and France, the former ruling power in Lebanon, which
issued a statement condemning the bombing. Mr. Hoss cited the Israeli cabinet's
decision this week to empower a three-member committee headed by Prime Minister
Ehud Barak to order immediate retaliatory strikes if any more Israeli soldiers
died.

Newspapers in Israel have said the order authorized new strikes against targets
like power plants, roads and bridges, as well as against military assets.

"This new development shows the unlimited arrogance of Israeli power," Mr. Hoss
said. Citing a 1996 agreement under which Israel and Hezbollah agreed not to
fire at civilian targets or to use civilians to shield their attacks, the
Lebanese leader said the United States had a special responsibility to restrain
Israeli attacks on nonmilitary targets, "as Israel uses American weapons in its
aggression against civilian targets in Lebanon."

Israeli accounts said American-made F-16 fighter-bombers fired the missiles that
destroyed the plants.

From an American standpoint, the student protests showed the value of moving the
embassy from its former downtown location. In Aukar, the predominantly Christian
suburb surrounding the new embassy, the compound has been built to
specifications drawn up after the wave of attacks on American diplomatic
installations in the 1980's. Embassy buildings and staff accommodations stand
well back from the perimeter wall, offering protection against truck bombings
and lesser violence like stone throwing.

The protests today began with 30 busloads of demonstrators' arriving at
barbed-wire barricades erected by Lebanese forces. The demonstrators, many
covering their faces with the Palestinian-style red and grey scarves, moved
forward repeatedly against the barricades, shouting, "Death to America!" and,
"Death to Israel!" Some demonstrators set an American flag alight and threw it
at the security forces.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters fleeing tear gas outside the United States Embassy in
Aukar, a suburb of Beirut. Slight injuries to a handful of students were
reported. (Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             709 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Protests in Beirut Against U.S. and Israel Turn Wrath on CNN

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Feb. 18


A second day of angry street protests against Israel and the United States
turned today against the American cable network CNN, with Lebanese soldiers and
policemen in riot gear firing tear gas to drive back about 3,000 demonstrators
who tried to reach CNN's Beirut offices.

The demonstrators, mostly university students, dispersed after about an hour
without breaking through barricades. Their anger at CNN, the only American
television network with a news bureau here, appeared to be as much an outgrowth
of resentment of the United States' support of Israel as an attack on CNN's
Middle East coverage, although that, too, was widely condemned.

After protesters on Thursday were turned back outside the American Embassy by
tear-gas volleys and water cannons, popular fury against the United States was
left, in effect, looking for a more accessible target. The embassy protest,
involving a crowd that some Lebanese accounts estimated at 2,000, was halted
several hundred yards from the new embassy compound.

The protests stemmed from Israeli bombing raids on Feb. 8 that destroyed three
Lebanese power plants, wounded about 20 civilians and cut the country's
electricity by half. The attacks left the Lebanese government, still struggling
to rebuild in the aftermath of a 16-year civil war that ended in 1989, with a
reconstruction bill estimated at $50 million. Israel described the raids as
retaliation for attacks by guerrillas of Hezbollah, the Iran-backed Islamic
militant group that has recently killed seven Israeli soldiers.

Today's demonstrations began as about 5,000 people marched on the United Nations
headquarters in a redeveloped part of West Beirut. The march passed off
peacefully after being halted at barricades manned by Lebanese soldiers and the
police. Some protesters waved the yellow banners of Hezbollah and the green
banners of Amal, a rival Shiite Muslim faction, and shouted slogans against the
United States and Israel.

Others carried versions of the Star of David that had been disfigured with Nazi
swastikas.

Two hours later, some of the same demonstrators showed up about a mile away at
the protest against CNN. This time, there was no visible sign of involvement by
Hezbollah or Amal, and most protesters appeared to come from two universities in
the Lebanese capital with strong United States links, the American University of
Beirut and the Lebanese American University. Both colleges enroll mainly
Lebanese students, but maintain offices in New York that raise money for the
operations here.

After the initial tear-gas volleys, the marchers held back from the barricades,
singing the Lebanese national anthem and burning an American flag. Many of their
hand-lettered signs criticized American policy toward Lebanon, in particular
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's initial response to the power plant
bombings, which was seen here as an endorsement of the Israeli action.
"Albright, Lebanon all dark," said one.

In a bid to stem the anti-American sentiment, the United States ambassador,
David Satterfield, passed a letter on Wednesday to the Lebanese prime minister,
Selim al-Hoss, in which Mrs. Albright appeared to shift her position on the
power plant bombings. Mr. Satterfield, summarizing the letter, said Mrs.
Albright "expressed her deep sorrow and regret on behalf of the United States
government over the attacks which have taken place on the civilian
infrastructure of Lebanon and damage and harm to civilians."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             710 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Rallying for the Rebel Cause

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: About 2,500 supporters of the South as a separate nation waved
Confederate flags in a rally yesterday at the Capitol in Montgomery, Ala.,
calling on state officials to once again fly the battle flag atop the Capitol
dome. (Associated Press)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             711 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 30, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Boy's Case Could Sway Bush-Gore Contest

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 29


Could Vice President Al Gore's fate be tied to that of a 6-year-old boy from
Cuba?

That is what some political analysts think as the nation waits for the Clinton
administration to take the next step in sending Elian Gonzalez back to Cuba.

Cuban-Americans make up nearly 12 percent of voters in Florida, the nation's
fourth-most-populous state, and few doubt that Mr. Gore's presidential campaign
would suffer if the government sent Elian back to his father in Cuba.

Alex Penelas, the mayor of Miami-Dade County -- and an ally of Mr. Gore's --
said today that the area's Cuban population, about 800,000 strong, would hold
the administration responsible if it returned the boy and civil unrest broke
out.

The mayor omitted the vice president's name from those he said would be held
accountable, but he said, "It's guilt by association, and a lot of people think
there is more he should be doing."

"The ultimate responsible parties, though, are the president and Janet Reno,"
Mr. Penelas said.

Mr. Gore has repeatedly declined to specify what he thinks should happen to
Elian, saying last week: "This is a custody matter for the courts to decide
based on due process, with a full hearing in which all parties are heard."

Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, Mr. Gore's Republican rival, has said that Elian's
fate should be decided by Florida's family courts, which would probably be far
more sympathetic to the relatives in Miami who want to keep the boy.

Florida tends to vote Republican in presidential elections, but Bill Clinton and
Al Gore won the state in 1996. They took more than 40 percent of the
Cuban-American vote centered in Dade County, but such support may be unlikely
this year.

Jim Nicholson, chairman of the Republican National Committee, said through a
spokesman: "If Elian gets sent back, the Cuban community will remember which
party wanted to hand a small child back to Fidel Castro across a barbed-wire
fence."

Mr. Gore has given every sign of making a play for the state, if only to spook
Mr. Bush into spending more time and money there. Mr. Bush's brother Jeb is
governor of Florida and controls an extensive get-out-the-vote machine there.

Mr. Gore has visited the state several times, and he stayed in Tallahassee on
March 14 when he clinched the Democratic nomination. He plans a return trip late
next week.

Cuban voters could swing the state, and Florida could have a pivotal role in the
election.

The Cuban American National Foundation said recently that it would work actively
against Mr. Gore. And there have been signs that many of the 40,000
Cuban-Americans who are registered Democrats are changing their party
affiliation.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             712 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 4, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Flag Protesters Walk On

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 64 words

DATELINE: GOOSE CREEK, S.C. April 3


A group of about 70 people set out today on the second leg of a 120-mile trek to
get the Confederate battle flag removed from the South Carolina Statehouse in
Columbia.

The numbers were down sharply from about 600 people who began the march on
Sunday. The marchers plan to arrive at in Columbia on Thursday, the same day
supporters of flying the flag have scheduled a rally.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             713 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 7, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Protesters Try Flowers After Weeks Of Shouting

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 6


After weeks of angry shouts, name-calling and vows that little Elian Gonzalez
will be taken from his relatives' house only over their dead bodies,
demonstrators outside the home in Little Havana adopted a fresh tactic here
today.

They waved flowers.

As news filtered through the crowd of more than 100 demonstrators that Elian's
father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, had landed in Washington to take custody of his
child, leaders of a four-month-long demonstration outside the house began
handing out pink carnations and yellow lilies.

"These flowers represent the love for Elian and for his father," said Jorge
Chavez, 25, a Dade County schoolteacher who had the day off for spring break.

"He's a victim," Mr. Chavez said of Elian's father, whom Mr. Chavez believes is
just a pawn of the Fidel Castro government in Cuba. "It's not his fault."

Demonstrators, many of them wearing "George W. Bush for President" pins, said
the boy's father was welcome here, echoing the family's entreaty that he go to
their home to eat a meal and speak with them as family, without the otherwise
ever-present lawyers.

A few days ago, family members were accusing Mr. Gonzalez of verbally abusing
his son and lying to him, saying that he had told Elian on the telephone that
his mother, Elizabet Brotons, who drowned in a failed crossing with Elian from
Cuba in November, was still alive and on the island.

But today, Adam Rassi, a 29-year-old grocery employee who has slept outside the
home of Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, for several nights, said he
welcomed Elian's father.

"No one is going to hurt him," said Mr. Rassi, who is one of about 20 watchers
who carry radios and stand ready to call others to the site.

Outside the home, one demonstrator told reporters that while she might spit at
Juan Miguel Gonzalez, she would not hurt him.

Meanwhile, talks between the boy's Miami relatives and immigration officials
broke down again, as lawyers wrangled over how to remove the boy.

Family members here had wanted Juan Miguel Gonzalez to promise that he and Elian
would stay in the United States until a decision on the case was rendered in the
United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, but lawyers for the family
here angrily warned late this afternoon that there was nothing to prevent Mr.
Gonzalez from leaving for Cuba with Elian once the boy was in his actual
custody.

Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, a lawyer for Elian's Miami family, said the government
would not discuss anything with the family except ways of removing him from the
house.

Family members have appealed a federal judge's ruling that upheld Attorney
General Janet Reno's decision to send the boy back. The appellate court hearing
is scheduled for May 11 in Atlanta.

But the government has failed to get a written agreement from the family to hand
the boy over peacefully, something government lawyers wanted from the relatives
here in return for their promise to keep Elian in the United States until after
the appeal.

Government officials can now take the boy at any time, although an Immigration
and Naturalization Service official said that might not happen for a few days,
if that soon.

Government officials have said they do not want to have federal officers go in
and take the boy by force. For months, there had seemed no other way, as
demonstrators vowed to block any effort to remove him.

But, as newspaper editorial pages across the country blasted Miami-Dade County
elected officials for saying they would side with Cuban exiles here over the
rule of law and that any blood shed would be on the hands of President Bill
Clinton and Ms. Reno, demonstrators who had talked about sacrificing their lives
in chaos in the streets were instead tossing flowers.

They held hands and prayed.

"I am ashamed, really," said Angel Cruz, a farmer in Cuba who came to the United
States five years ago.

"Enough is enough, already," Mr. Cruz said of the previous harsh language
directed at the father by demonstrators. Elian's father cannot speak the truth,
Mr. Cruz said, because of the repressive government in Cuba.

Ramon Saul Sanchez, of the Movimiento Democracia exile group and the most
visible demonstration leader, again promised that demonstrators would remain
nonviolent, but he has warned that civil disobedience will follow any move on
the house by federal officials.

Many demonstrators said they could feel the situation coming to a close soon.

"I get a little more nervous every day," Mr. Rassi said. "Anything can happen."



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             714 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 12, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Outside Little Havana, Many Beg to Differ

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 11


Ann Williams, 62, was a child when black Americans marched and staged sit-ins
and defied police. It would be hypocritical, she said, to condemn
Cuban-Americans for doing this, even if it is the future of one child at stake,
not the future of a people.

Like many others here outside the Cuban exile community, Ms. Williams believes
that, now that his father has come for him, the boy Elian Gonzalez should go
back to Cuba. But, she says, Cuban-Americans had every right to try and stop it.

"You have to fight, and if that means a bunch of cars driving slow, blocking
traffic and waving flags and blowing horns, then block traffic and blow your
horn," said Ms. Williams, a daytime dispatcher for a taxi company in the Liberty
City district.

Just a few streets away, Garth C. Reeves, the publisher of the city's black
weekly, The Miami Times, did not see shadows of the civil rights movement in the
Elian case.

"It would have been better for this community if Elian had never arrived," Mr.
Reeves said, echoing the sentiments of many people here who see the case as a
simple custody one gone insane from politics. "Most black people could care
less. They hope he goes back to Cuba."

No matter where one goes in this diverse city, no matter what color skin the
people have who do the talking, opinions on the custody standoff and the
Cuban-Americans' defiant attitude vary street to street. Some see the case as a
simple matter of a father's reunification with a son and say it has nothing to
do with them; others get so mad they shake.

Latin Americans from countries other than Cuba tend, mostly, to think that the
Cuban-Americans are pampered, whining, right-wing extremists. But some, from
countries ruled by dictators, say they understand the hatred that Cuban exiles
spout for Fidel Castro's government and understand how much this boy's presence
here means to them. Every second he stays defies Mr. Castro.

It is a complicated argument in a complicated city, and it has consumed so much
more of it than just a few blocks of Little Havana, or Miami's exile community.

"I get a little upset when they plan these protests, because all it is doing is
making other Miamians hate them for making our lives miserable," said Elba
Mejia, 38, from Nicaragua, who added that she believed that Elian should be sent
home. "They have to realize there are others here, not just Cubans."

But Lidya Ceballos, 45, who came to Miami from El Salvador, knows how it is to
look back on a government with hostility, and even fear. "If he goes back, his
mother will have died in vain, for absolutely no reason," Ms. Ceballos said.

"He should stay," added Ms. Ceballos, who owns a beauty salon in Miami. "I think
the government should think this through."

On and on it goes, with opinions shifting as often as the accents. Miami, people
here said, is a difficult city to live in anyway with gridlock at all times of
the day -- it has been rated the nation's third most congested city -- falling
bond ratings from governmental mismanagement, and the weather, which can feel
like a hot, wet sock.

If Cuban-Americans think they are angry about Elian, Miamians said, think how it
feels to be locked in traffic by a political protest that has little or nothing
to do with the lives of Anglos, blacks and other Hispanics.

Mr. Reeves has written about Miami's black community for much of this century,
and has seen Cuban-Americans replace Anglos as the dominant culture here.

"It's not a good relationship," he said of the way Cuban-Americans and blacks
get along.

The Elian dispute has only made it worse, Mr. Reeves said. Like many others
here, he sees the custody battle and ensuing demonstrations as a selfish protest
that not only disregards years of favorable American treatment of Cuban exiles,
but also selfishly inconveniences others who have no stake in that fight.

"Traffic here is bad anyway, and with Elian it has been a nightmare," he said.
"You really don't want to see people in your face when you're trying to get to
work or hop a flight."

"They act like they don't appreciate being here," Mr. Reeves said of the
Cuban-Americans. "It's beginning to show."

In a crowded downtown food court, distinctly Miami in its diversity, the name
Elian is not on the menu. Lunch customers there, off First Avenue north, waited
in line for Argentinian barbecued beef, and for frozen mango juice and mutton
masala, eggs rolls and empenadas.

Though there were certainly Cuban-Americans at the tables clustered in the
center of the food court most people there had no personal stake in Elian's
story.

"What is Elian?" asked Roger David, from Madras, India, as he waited for Indian
food at a counter featuring curried everything for $3.99. "He is not on the news
in India."

Mr. David came to the United States just yesterday.

But most people here know exactly who the boy is and have a strong opinion about
him -- though many concede they are sick and tired of him.

Anglos in particular are fed up.

"I don't want to know when Elian walks out of his house holding balloons or when
he's playing in his yard," said Roman Lurman, 26, a computer consultant. "And I
don't need you to break into my programming to tell me that he's just walking
out of his house."

Television stations have adopted what many people only half-jokingly refer to as
"all Elian, all the time" programming, and viewers, including even some
Cuban-Americans, are beyond angry.

Newspaper readers, likewise, are disgusted with accounts that seem only to echo
the previous day's, and one Miamian compared the coverage that Elian is still
here to the old Saturday Night Live tag line: "Generalissimo Francisco Franco is
still dead."

"It's gotten out of hand," Mr. Lurman said.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             715 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 19, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Doctor Sees Mental Abuse of Cuban Boy

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 18


A pediatrician who is advising the United States government on the Elian
Gonzalez custody standoff said the 6-year-old was being psychologically abused
in the home of his Miami relatives and should be immediately removed from the
home.

"We think the child should be rescued," said the pediatrician, Irwin Redlener,
who helped the Immigration and Naturalization Service pick the mental health
experts who met last week with Elian's great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez.

In a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno and Doris M. Meissner, the head of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, he wrote that Elian was being
"horrendously exploited in this bizarre and destructive ambiance."

And the situation is worsening daily, wrote Dr. Redlener, a professor of
pediatrics at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and president and director of
community pediatrics at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore in New York.

Dr. Redlener, an unpaid adviser to the government, was especially critical of a
home video taped by the relatives last week and broadcast by a Spanish language
television station here, in which Elian told his father that he did not want to
go back with him to Cuba.

The image of Elian, occasionally glancing off to the side as if for approval or
instructions, and sounding rehearsed, "looked exactly like what we might see in
a hostage situation," Dr. Redlener wrote.

But lawyers for the boy's Miami relatives said the pediatrician, as well as the
mental health experts the government sent to meet with Lazaro Gonzalez, never
talked to the child.

Jose Garcia-Pedrosa, one of the family's lawyers, said the pediatrician's
comments were "absurd."

Last week, psychologists who were invited into the home by the Miami family said
that taking Elian from the home would traumatize him.

But Dr. Redlener wrote that the situation is worsening for the boy as the
standoff has become more vicious and heated.

Around the country, other experts on pediatric medicine and mental health agreed
that the emotionally charged situation was destructive to the child. But in
Miami, Dr. Redlener's letter was denounced by the Cuban Pediatric Society in
exile.

Dr. Redlener's letter came as both sides in this case waited for a ruling from
the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, on an
emergency stay that would keep Elian in the United States until a full hearing
of an appeal of his case on May 11.

Elsewhere, the Elian saga became even stranger. Mayor Joe Carollo of Miami
traveled to Washington to accuse Cuban diplomats there of beating Cuban-American
protesters who had demonstrated outside the Cuban Interests Section last week.

The demonstrators said they were attacked by several men from inside the
Interests Section, who beat and kicked them. Mayor Carollo said Ms. Reno had
promised him that she would investigate the incident.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Joe Carollo of Miami, left, yesterday at a news conference
in Washington, with Jorge Rodriguez, second from right, and Ignacio Cordova, who
held photographs of Elian Gonzalez. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             716 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 25, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Working To Clear Vieques

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24


Federal officials said today that they were working on a plan to remove, by
force if necessary, dozens of Puerto Rican protesters at a Navy bombing range on
the island of Vieques.

The operation could begin as early as next week, the officials said.

The protesters stand in the way of putting into effect an agreement reached on
Jan. 31 by President Clinton and Gov. Pedro J. Rossello to permit the Navy to
resume limited exercises on Vieques in exchange for a referendum to decide
whether to close the range.

When the deal was announced, Mr. Rossello pledged to "support federal efforts to
assure that trespassing or other intrusions on the range cease entirely." Since
the agreement, however, no action has been taken against the protesters.

The removal plan, which has not received final approval, would involve federal
marshals as well as F.B.I. agents. Marines would be aboard ships off the coast
to provide perimeter security, the officials said. The Puerto Rican police would
support the operation by performing crowd control and other duties.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             717 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 27, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

NATIONAL LEAGUE: ROUNDUP;
Cubans Get Back to Business

BYLINE: By CHARLIE NOBLES

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 739 words


A day after honoring a Cuban-American orchestrated work stoppage to protest
6-year-old Elian Gonzalez's removal from the home of his Miami extended family
last weekend, a pair of Cubans who are best friends -- Livan Hernandez and
Vladimir Nunez -- yesterday resumed doing what they do best: pitch.

The San Francisco Giants' Hernandez fared much better than the Florida Marlins'
Nunez, but neither got a decision in the Giants' 12-inning, 8-7 victory at Pro
Player Stadium.

The hero again for San Francisco was the reserve outfielder Armando Rios, who
delivered the game-winning double the previous night. Yesterday Rios hit a
two-out run-producing triple in the 12th inning to help the Giants to their
fifth victory in a row.

No protests were visible yesterday among the 15,296 who attended under sunny
skies, as the eight players here who missed Tuesday's game in protest returned
to uniform. On Tuesday night, the Marlins ran out of bench options in the 11th,
having to pinch-hit with a pitcher, Brad Penny, essentially giving up an out
when they needed a rally.

Marlins third baseman Mike Lowell didn't second-guess himself for missing the
game on Tuesday night. "I don't have any regrets," he said. "My family's Cuban.
It's something I had to do."

Lowell and another player who sat out Tuesday's game, Giants catcher Bobby
Estalella, received scattered boos during their first at-bats yesterday. But
later Lowell, who went 3 for 6 during the game, had the crowd cheering after a
home run.

Hernandez, clearly more comfortable talking baseball than politics, said of his
absence a day earlier: "I watched the game last night from my home. When every
Cuban is staying home, I stay home, too."

Baseball gradually crept back as the focal point yesterday. This was the first
time the friends had opposed each other in a game since 1990, when both were
promising teen-age pitchers in Cuba.

It appeared that Hernandez would get his first victory of the season. But the
closer Robb Nen gave up a tying three-run home run to Mark Kotsay in the ninth.
   CHARLIE NOBLES

BRAVES 5, DODGERS 1: Andres Galarraga homered again, Kevin Millwood pitched
seven strong innings and host Atlanta won its ninth in a row.

Andruw Jones and Chipper Jones also hit back-to-back homers for the Braves,
whose winning streak is their longest since they put together 10 straight
victories from Aug. 19 to 29 last season. (AP)

PIRATES 9, PADRES 8: Brian Giles hit a two-out single in the bottom of the ninth
for host Pittsburgh. The Padres had intentionally walked Jason Kendall to allow
the left-hander Matt Whisenant (2-1) to face the left-handed-hitting Giles. (AP)

Diamondbacks 10, Phillies 4: Todd Stottlemyre hit his first career home run and
earned the victory for visiting Arizona.

Stottlemyre (4-1), in his 13th major league season, homered in his 216th at-bat.
The Diamondbacks are 14-7 -- their best record in April in their short history.
(AP)

EXPOS 9, ROCKIES 2: Vladimir Guerrero hit his 100th career home run and raised
his N.L.-leading average to .452, leading host Montreal. Guerrero singled in his
first two at-bats, then was hit in the right hand by a pitch from Kevin Jarvis
(1-1) in the sixth.

In the eighth, Guerrero hit a drive off Julian Tavarez for a 420-foot homer run.
(AP)

CARDINALS 7, BREWERS 0: The rookie pitcher Rick Ankiel led a three-homer surge
that helped St. Louis set a major league record for April, and also threw seven
scoreless innings.

Jim Edmonds and Fernando Tatis also connected as the Cardinals reached 50 homers
in April, breaking the mark of 49 set by the 1997 Cleveland Indians. They have
four games left this month to chase the record for homers in any month, 58 by
the 1987 Baltimore Orioles. (AP)

CUBS 13, ASTROS 8: Ricky Gutierrez drove in a career-high five runs and Sammy
Sosa hit a tie-breaking homer in the seventh inning, leading Chicago at Houston.
Sosa's seventh homer put the Cubs ahead by 4-3. After Sosa homered off Mike
Maddux (1-1), Joe Girardi had a run-scoring single and Gutierrez had a three-run
double off Jay Powell.

There have been 39 homers in 11 games at new Enron Field. (AP)

RYAN LIKELY TO LEAVE HOSPITAL THIS WEEK: Nolan Ryan is recovering well after a
double-bypass heart operation and should leave the hospital this week, his
doctor and a spokesman for his baseball team said yesterday in Round Rock, Tex.
(AP)

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             718 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 30, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Their Fury in Check, Thousands Hold Peaceful Protest in Miami Over Cuban Boy

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1077 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 29


The anger and disappointment filled 18 blocks. Old men who have hated Fidel
Castro since 1959 shouted fresh rage today on the hot asphalt of Southwest
Eighth Street, and young people who have never stepped foot on Cuban soil waited
in line to buy T-shirts that read "Elian We Love You." People prayed, made
speeches, and just stood, being here, because it was important.

"I don't think he'll get to stay in this country," said Carmen Nunez, one of
thousands who came to Miami's Little Havana today in peaceful protest of the
federal raid here a week ago to seize Elian Gonzalez.

"I'm here for the cause, for my people, for my blood, for my country," said Ms.
Nunez, 42, a legal secretary who came to Miami from Cuba when she was 10. Like
many people here, she has accepted the reality that Elian, the 6-year-old Cuban
boy who was rescued off the Florida coast in November, is with his father and
probably will soon be back in Cuba. That does not mean she has to like it.

One week after Elian was taken from the home of Miami relatives in a predawn
raid by federal agents that resulted in violent protests and more than 300
arrests, Cuban-Americans here again took to the streets, still angry but
peaceful.

A crowd estimated in the tens of thousands and representing three generations of
Cuban-Americans milled in the streets and denounced President Clinton, Attorney
General Janet Reno and the United States. The crowd apparently never reached the
100,000 people that the organizers had promised, but protesters said it was
still a strong message to the nation.

"I've never been to Cuba in my life, but I felt I just had to be here," said
Ileana Martinez, 29, a teacher. "We can't understand why this is happening, and
we're here to show the world how criminal this is."

This peaceful demonstration, which lasted less than two hours, drew only a
fraction of the attention of earlier demonstrations.

Only local, Spanish-language television stations carried the protest live today,
unlike last week's live, national coverage. Last week, camera crews had filmed
clashes between police officers and demonstrators. Today, demonstrators stood at
attention as a bugler played the Cuban national anthem.

The Miami police today refused to give an estimate of the crowd size, which they
routinely do at such demonstrations. The Associated Press said tens of thousands
of people had joined the rally.

Outside Miami, the Cuban-Americans' demands for justice seemed to be getting
little support. Polls have shown that a majority of Americans seemed not only
unimpressed with the demands for justice but angry at the denouncements of the
United States and the upside-down American flags that have become a symbol of
protest in Little Havana. Demonstrators here loudly booed a plane that flew over
with a banner that said, "America Loves Janet Reno."

In the crowd, some protesters made it clear who they are supporting in the
presidential elections in November. Spanish-language radio announcers urged
demonstrators to vote only Republican -- most of them already do -- and some
protesters carried signs that read: "America, be patient. Nine more months of
Clinton and Co."

Many demonstrators waved signs saying "Carollo for President," lauding Mayor Joe
Carollo of Miami, who has sided with the Cuban exiles in this confrontation with
the federal government.

The rally today came just a day after the resignation of the police chief. On
Friday, Chief William O'Brien resigned, saying he could no longer work for Mr.
Carollo, whom he called divisive and destructive.

His resignation came a day after Mr. Carollo fired the city manager, Donald H.
Warshaw, who had refused to fire Chief O'Brien in the aftermath of the raid.

Mr. Carollo was angry at Chief O'Brien, who learned of the raid an hour
beforehand but did not alert the mayor, because Mr. Carollo had sided with
Elian's Miami relatives against the federal government's decision to reunite the
child with his father.

Mr. O'Brien said he kept silent because telling the mayor would have been like
telling the family. It would have brought many more demonstrators to the house
and put police officers, Elian, the family and others in danger of a larger,
longer confrontation, he said.

Mr. Carollo said he was also angry with the chief because of the way the Miami
police responded to last weekend's demonstrations, which left tires and
overturned trash bins blazing in the streets. Mr. Carollo said Chief O'Brien and
Mr. Warshaw, a former chief of police, gave officers a "green light" to attack
protesters.

While Cuban-Americans applauded the mayor, many other residents have reacted
harshly to the turmoil in City Hall, saying that Mr. Carollo did not believe he
served anyone other than the city's Cuban-Americans, who make up 60 percent of
registered voters.

"Miami city officials act like heads of state, scapegoating and firing cabinet
ministers after a lost war with a foreign power," said David Abraham, a law
professor at the University of Miami. "This mixture of bellicosity and crude
posturing continues to bring justified suspicion and disrepute down on Miami."

Many demonstrators did see the Elian fight as a battle against a foreign power,
the United States.

"Americans don't believe us," said Ana Ruiz, 30, a nurse. "They haven't been
there," she said of Cuba and its Communist, oppressive society.

"They don't want to listen," she said, referring to Mr. Clinton and Ms. Reno.
"They don't want to understand."

But for today, it was a peaceful demonstration.

"This is what I like to see," said Ramon Saul Sanchez, leader of Movimiento
Democracia, an anti-Castro group that advocates nonviolent protests. "This is a
nonviolent, massive demonstration," Mr. Sanchez said, "to demand justice, demand
the law."

Elian was far away from the chants and cheers. He is with his father, Juan
Miguel Gonzalez, stepmother and half-brother at the Wye River retreat in the
Eastern Shore of Maryland.

The boy must remain in the United States until the United States Court of
Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, rules on his Miami relatives' efforts
to win an asylum hearing for the boy.

A cousin, his first-grade teacher and four playmates arrived in Maryland last
week from Cuba to stay with him.

In Miami, the demonstration ended quietly, with the Cuban national anthem.

"It's not time to forgive and forget," said Ofelia Sedano, who owns a logistics
company in Hialeah.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of Cuban-Americans marched in Miami yesterday and
denounced the Clinton administration. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             719 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 9, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Year Later, China's New View of U.S. Bombing

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 278 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 8


One year ago today, university students were hurling bricks at the American
Embassy in a rage over the NATO bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade that
killed 3 people and injured 20. Today, they spent a balmy Monday attending
classes or playing soccer.

The Chinese government, which last year railed against American perfidy and
imperialist ambitions, commemorated the bombing in a low-key manner, as well. A
government spokesman restated China's position that the American explanation
that the attack resulted from targeting errors remains inadequate. An editorial
in the People's Daily called on Chinese to channel their continued anger into
strengthening the economy.

Many Chinese say they still believe that the bombing had to have been
intentional, meant to warn or punish China, and resentment persists. But now,
the government and people want most to see the China trade bill pass Congress
this month.

Conversations with students at People's University here today found no sentiment
for renewed rock throwing in any case.

Zhou Jiubo, 21, who is studying management, was at the American Embassy in May
heaving bricks. "We were all hot-headed and angry," he recalled. "But now we've
taken to heart the government's advice to study hard and make China strong. We
need to make our country stronger so it won't be subject to bullying any more."

Zhao Bingling, 22, a law student, said, "We haven't forgotten about the
bombing."

What worries her more today, she said, is the Congressional trade vote, which
many here see as a litmus test of American attitudes. If the bill is defeated,
she said, "I think there will be a very strong reaction."

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             720 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 20, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A Year After Victory, Barak Fights on Many Fronts

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, May 19


A week that began in violence ended violently here, with bloody clashes in the
West Bank and Gaza and intensified fighting in southern Lebanon.

On the one-year anniversary of his election by a sweeping majority, Prime
Minister Ehud Barak was trying to put out fires on many fronts at once.

Because of trouble in the north, the south and within his political coalition,
he was weighing a cancellation of his scheduled departure this weekend to the
United States to confer with President Clinton and meet with Jewish American
leaders.

Despite the violence, back-channel peace talks continued in Sweden.

Israeli, Palestinian and American officials have characterized them as a serious
and constructive dialogue on the process itself and on the final status issues.

News accounts here say that Israel is offering as much as 90 percent of the West
Bank to the Palestinians, although it is difficult to assess what is really
happening by the bargaining moves that are leaked.

Near a heavily fortified Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip, an Israeli soldier
and a Palestinian policeman were wounded as Palestinian protests for the release
of 1,650 prisoners degenerated into confrontations. Israeli military officials
say they are investigating the source of fire that wounded the soldier, but that
there was no gunbattle between troops like the one that took place on Monday
near Ramallah in the West Bank.

"The prime minister views the events severely and has ordered the Israeli
Defense Forces to act accordingly to restore calm," Mr. Barak's office said in a
statement tonight.

The protests today, which began as the Friday prayer services ended, were
organized before Monday's demonstrations erupted into severe rioting that ended
with three Palestinians dead. Palestinian authorities said they were trying to
keep tensions low, although in Ramallah their effort did not appear to be of
sustained high intensity. Many officers stepped to the side as a march,
organized by the militant Islamic group Hamas, headed toward confrontation with
the Israeli forces.

In Qalqilya, in contrast, Palestinian police officers held back demonstrators
with nightsticks. At least 20 Palestinians were injured by rubber-coated
bullets. Another "day of rage" was scheduled for Saturday.

It was unclear whether the violence would delay the transfer of Abu Dis and two
other villages near Jerusalem to the Palestinian Authority. Mr. Barak's advisers
said he would turn over the towns within days, provided that Palestinian
officials calmed the streets and cooperated with their investigation of how
things got out of hand on Monday.

In the north, Israeli warplanes attacked suspected guerrilla positions in
southern Lebanon today. This followed fighting Thursday, the heaviest in two
weeks, in which 14 people were wounded, including 4 Lebanese civilians and a
United Nations peacekeeper.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Israeli soldier was wounded yesterday as tensions remained
high in the Gaza Strip, where Palestinians called for prisoners to be freed.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             721 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 26, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

As Protests Grow Violent, Peru Says Runoff Will Go On

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, May 25


The government of President Alberto K. Fujimori said today that a runoff
presidential election would be held on Sunday as scheduled despite nationwide
protests and calls from Washington and other allies that it be postponed to
ensure a clean ballot count.

The decision appeared to increase the possibility of economic sanctions against
Peru after it ignored the recommendations of the Clinton administration, the
Organization of American States and several European and Latin American
governments.

Within minutes of the announcement, violent clashes that had left several people
injured earlier in the day resumed, with protesters setting fire to a balcony of
the presidential palace and hurling stones at the building and at the police,
who responded with tear gas.

The electoral crisis had been gathering momentum since Alejandro Toledo, the
opposition candidate, dropped out of the race last Thursday, saying he would not
compete in a fraudulent election. He had said he would rejoin the contest only
if it were postponed by several weeks, with guarantees for a free vote.

Upon hearing today's decision, Mr. Toledo said, "This will bring Peru enormous
instability, with totally unpredictable political and economic consequences."

During intense negotiations all week, United States and Latin American diplomats
had urged Peruvian officials to delay the election so a computer system used to
count votes could be overhauled and rechecked by independent auditors.

A brief announcement that the National Elections Commission had voted, 3 to 2,
to go forward with the runoff was met with shock by international observers who
had become increasingly hopeful that President Fujimori had decided to give in
to international pressure.

"We are quite disappointed," said Eduardo Stein, head of an election observer
team for the Organization of American States, "because other options were being
intensively considered." He added, "It's been a terrible week."

A senior United States Embassy official said: "The U.S. government deeply
regrets this outcome. Even a relatively brief delay would have put the
Organization of American States in a position to speak to the integrity of the
election results."

President Fujimori had appeared to be going back and forth on the election
scheduling during the past three days, but Western diplomats said that mounting
protests had perhaps strengthened the hand of hard-liners in the government.

Just Wednesday night, Mr. Fujimori had said in an interview in the government
palace: "The possibility for an adjustment of the election date exists. We are
in a fluctuating situation." It was one of several signs that Mr. Fujimori and
his aides were satisfied that they could win the election at a later date and
avert a crisis in its foreign relations.

"It was a close call," Francisco Tudela, Mr. Fujimori's vice presidential
running mate, said of the decision in an interview tonight. The electoral
commission "could not escape the Constitution and the elections law." Under the
law, he said, the election could not be held more than 30 days after results of
the first-round presidential vote were announced.

A wave of strikes and street demonstrations that followed Mr. Toledo's
withdrawal from the race last week grew increasingly violent today.

A small group of protesters attacked the offices of the National Elections
Commission, the highest government body that supervises the elections, and broke
windows and damaged a door with rocks, pipes and at least one gasoline bomb.
Scores of people were arrested in the northern jungle city of Iquitos for
blocking roads, and the police used tear gas to clear protesters gathering in
front of the government palace here in the capital.

Truck drivers and teachers staged a strike in the Andean city of Cuzco, a Toledo
stronghold. Bands of university students in Lima and Arequipa repeatedly
attacked riot police officers with stones, and the police counterattacked with
tear gas through much of the day.

A growing number of influential businessmen had warned that holding the
uncontested election on Sunday could mean years of economic sanctions and
tensions with Washington that could impede investment and growth. Their
arguments were strengthened through the week as Peruvian bond and stock prices
dropped sharply and foreign financial institutions issued risk warnings that
threatened to increase interest rates.

In recent days, the government's policies on the campaign and political process
have been inconsistent. Several television stations allied with the government
had begun showing Toledo commercials and coverage of his rallies, while tabloid
newspapers thought to be directed by Mr. Fujimori's intelligence service had
softened their negative coverage of Mr. Toledo's personal life.

Nevertheless, on Wednesday night, three unidentified men broke into the offices
of an opposition journalist who was said to hold incriminating videotapes of
Vladimiro Montesinos, Mr. Fujimori's intelligence chief, meeting with election
officials. The journalist, Fabian Salazar, said the burglars tied him up and
tortured him as they demanded that he reveal the sources within the intelligence
service who gave him copies of the tapes, which apparently were made by Mr.
Montesinos himself.

Mr. Salazar said the intruders cut his left wrist to the bone with a saw during
their questioning. He was hospitalized, and his videotapes, archives and
computer disks were stolen. Human rights activists said Mr. Salazar's
descriptions of his ordeal, which were verified by doctors, may represent the
worst example of torture in Peru in at least two years.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters burned campaign posters in Lima yesterday, and
election demonstrations across Peru grew increasingly violent. The protests
included an attack on the offices of the National Elections Commission. (Agence
France-Presse)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             722 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

20 Hurt in Protests at U.S. Base Near Seoul

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: MAEHYANG-RI, South Korea, June 17


At a United States military base that has long been a point of dispute, hundreds
of protesters demanding that American troops leave South Korea clashed with the
police today, leaving at least 20 people injured.

The protests came just days after a landmark agreement between North and South
Korea to work for peace and unity, but the villagers have long demanded the
relocation of a nearby United States Air Force bombing range at the Koon-Ni
Range, which they consider a source of noise and injuries.

After about 100 people gathered today to protest at this west coast village, 50
miles southwest of Seoul, students and leftist labor activists seized the
occasion to mount a wider anti-American demonstration, swelling the ranks of the
protesters to about 1,000.

"This is our land! Let's drive out U.S. troops!" they chanted today, pumping
their fists into the air as they demanded that the 37,000 American troops in
South Korea go home.

The protesters threw rocks and dirt and wielded bamboo sticks when riot police
officers locked their plastic shields and batons to block them from marching on
the range. Police officers beat them back, and traded rocks, kicks and punches
with 100 union workers from the nearby Kia Motors plant who tried to join the
protest. Sporadic clashes continued for hours.

Ambulances rushed to the remote fishing village to carry off 20 Kia workers and
students, all bleeding from their heads or arms. One Kia worker's face was
covered with blood. A Roman Catholic priest, bleeding from the head, shouted for
the withdrawal of American troops.

Some workers climbing pine-covered hills to go around the police blockade were
chased by officers.

The villagers' protests have increased since early May, when an American fighter
jet with engine trouble dropped six bombs on the range. The villagers claimed
that six people were slightly injured, and that walls were cracked and windows
shattered by the impact.

American and Korean military investigators said the bombs caused no injuries or
property damage. South Korea's Defense Ministry has ruled out moving the base
and instead intends to relocate 236 homes close to the range to avoid friction
-- a plan opposed by villagers.

The United States Air Force has suspended exercises at the range since mid-May.
It said it will resume operation Monday, saying further delays would hurt its
readiness to deter military threats from North Korea.

President Kim Dae Jung has said he supports a continued American military
presence even after North Korean military threats cease. He said the American
presence was necessary for stability in the region.

The bombing exercises have been a constant source of friction with villagers.
They say at least nine people have died in accidents linked to the range,
including a pregnant woman killed when shrapnel hit her in 1967.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The police used a fire extinguisher on a protester yesterday
during a march on a United States Air Force bombing range in South Korea.
Demonstrators demanded that American troops leave the country. (Reuters)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             723 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 25, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Navy's Plans Protested on Vieques

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States Navy said yesterday that it was ready to
resume bombing exercises on the island of Vieques, P.R. The exercises would be
the largest since a civilian security guard was killed on the range in April
1999, setting off protests. After spending yesterday afternoon discussing
strategy, protesters marched outside the gates of the island's Camp Garcia and
vowed to block the military exercises. (Associated Press)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             724 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
6 Arrested on Vieques After New Navy Shelling

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 64 words

DATELINE: VIEQUES, P.R., June 26


A day after the Navy resumed firing inert shells at its bombing range here, six
protesters were arrested today at the training ground and 100 more were headed
for the island to obstruct the exercise.

One man was arrested inside the 900-acre target zone on the eastern tip of
Vieques, a Navy spokesman, Bob Nelson, said. The others were arrested outside
the target zone.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             725 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 19, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Arrest Spurs a Protest in a Divided City in Kosovo

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: MITROVICA, Kosovo, July 18


Angry over the arrest of a Serb accused of attacking Kosovo Albanians, thousands
of Serbs blocked roads into their part of this ethnically divided city today and
staged rallies to demand the suspect's release.

French soldiers backed by six armored personnel carriers blocked the main bridge
over the Ibar River, which divides the Serbian and Albanian areas, refusing to
allow even United Nations employees to cross.

Serbian leaders warned of more violence if the suspect, one of a group of Serbs
who guard the north side of the bridge, was not released. A Serbian delegation
was to meet United Nations officials on Wednesday to discuss the issue. A United
Nations spokesman, Mike Keats, said the trouble started after the suspect,
Dalibor Vukovic, was arrested Monday evening on charges of setting fire to
Albanian cars on June 9.

Hundreds of angry Serbs laid siege to the main United Nations police station in
the Serbian side of the city, pelting it with stones until French peacekeepers
fired tear gas and stun grenades to disperse them.

French officials said four Serbs and two United Nations police officers were
injured in the Monday night clash. Serbian news media put the figure at nine
Serbs injured, including a 15-year-old, who suffered a gunshot wound.

An unidentified United Nations policeman was seized by the crowd Monday night
but later released after a local Serbian leader intervened on his behalf, United
Nations officials said in a statement.

The arrest provoked a strong public reaction here in the largest Serbian
population remaining in Kosovo, the Serbian province that has been under the
control of NATO-led peacekeepers and United Nations administrators since last
summer.

Several hundred Serbs -- men, women and children -- massed this afternoon in
front of the police station, and speakers said the detention was another example
of United Nations and NATO favoritism toward the ethnic Albanian majority.

Serbs in the crowd said that unless Mr. Vukovic was freed, they would attack
United Nations and NATO targets here. But the United Nations refused to release
him. Serbs later barricaded all roads leading into their part of the city with
trucks and tractors. About 1,000 of them staged another rally this evening.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Kosovo showing the location of Mitrovica: Mitrovica is divided
into two ethnic zones by the Ibar River.


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             726 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 2, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

South Korea's Leader Deplores Anti-Americanism

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 1


President Kim Dae Jung issued a warning today against anti-Americanism as
displayed by a small group of protesters, reminding South Koreans that the
United States remained the country's "biggest supporter."

The warning came as the United States and South Korea prepared for talks
Wednesday on revising a defense agreement that critics say infringes on Seoul's
sovereignty.

Meanwhile, 50 protesters engaged in shoving matches with the police trying to
prevent them from rallying near the American Embassy today.

Waving pickets and shouting slogans, the protesters demanded that Washington
revise the defense treaty -- called the Status of Forces Agreement -- to allow
South Korea greater jurisdiction over American soldiers in criminal cases.

"We must criticize wrong American policies but that should not lead to
anti-Americanism," Mr. Kim was quoted by his office as saying during a cabinet
meeting. "Cooperative relations with the United States should remain strong.
Anti-Americanism does not help our national interests."

His warning was aimed at protesters who have demanded that Washington withdraw
37,000 troops stationed in South Korea as a deterrent against Communist North
Korea. The group has stepped up activities since relations between North and
South Korea began thawing in June, as a result of a summit meeting.

Despite the improving relations with North Korea, Mr. Kim reconfirmed that South
Korea needed the American military presence for its security and for regional
stability.

"The United States remains our biggest supporter," he said, "not only in
security and international relations but also in economic relations."

Demands to revise the defense treaty increased last month after the United
States military apologized for having dumped 20 gallons of formaldehyde into the
Han River, a main source of drinking water for Seoul's 12 million people.

Protesters used public criticism of the American forces to demand their
withdrawal.

Under the defense agreement, signed in 1966 and revised in 1991, American
soldiers stationed in South Korea and involved in crimes remain under the
custody of the United States military until all appeals are exhausted.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             727 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Remember Tiananmen

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 147 words



To the Editor:

Re "China's Opportunities, and Ours," by President Clinton (Op-Ed, Sept. 24):

On reading Mr. Clinton's motivations for our recent trade agreements with China,
I was appalled to note that he did not mention the events at Tiananmen Square in
1989.

To illustrate his cause for concern about the continued abuses of freedom in
China, the president refers to "China's effort to restrict access to some Web
sites." Perhaps a more persuasive citation would have been the gunning down of
nonviolent demonstrators in the center of town not so very long ago.

For those Americans wondering about China's readiness for global participation
and the freedoms it requires, and for whom the "T-word" is not yet "trade," but
still "Tiananmen," I would ask the president, "Are we supposed to just forget it
happened?"

JOHN HINSDALE
Tarrytown, N.Y., Sept. 25, 2000

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             728 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 4, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Israelis Criticized for Using Deadly Force Too Readily

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 3


Dr. Khaled Qurie, the director of East Jerusalem's busiest hospital, opened the
Kalfany Bonbons tin on his desk today and offered one of the items inside to a
visitor.

The small black ball, about the size of a Milk Dud, was not a sweet, but a
rubber-coated steel pellet, one of several varieties of theoretically non-lethal
bullets Dr. Qurie has collected from his patients in the last few days.

In clear storage jars atop Dr. Qurie's filing cabinet, he keeps 10 more of the
rubber bullets, used by the Israelis for riot-control as a safer alternative to
live ammunition. Some are spherical, some cylindrical, some sheathed in plastic,
some covered in rubber. Each has a neatly lettered label specifying from whom,
when, and from what part of the body it had been extracted.

"The surprise was the high number of upper body injuries -- abdomen, chest, neck
and head," he said, reviewing from memory the cases of the 35 Palestinians who
had been admitted to Makassed Hospital on Friday.

Most had serious wounds from the chaotic confrontation between Israeli police
and Muslim worshippers outside Jerusalem's Dome of the Rock. Six of the patients
died, three of them hit by conventional bullets and three by the non-exploding
rubber-coated projectiles.

An Israeli Army spokesman, Maj. Yarden Vatikai, said such cases are unfortunate
but unavoidable aberrations in armed clashes "with hundreds and sometimes
thousands of people," many of whom are lobbing stones and gasoline bombs at the
troops. Israeli troops only fire live ammunition in response to incoming fire or
"when lives are threatened," he said.

But Dr. Qurie's collection is a prime exhibit in the case being made here by
Palestinians and some Israelis here, as well as by diplomats abroad, that
Israeli forces have employed deadly force too readily in confrontations with
Palestinian rioters in the last six days. Israeli soldiers are taught to fire
the coated projectiles from specially adapted M-16's from at least 100 feet away
and only at the feet and legs, army officers say.

But there are many documented instances of close-range shootings at eye level:
since Friday doctors at St. John's Eye Hospital in Jerusalem have treated 18
Palestinians who were shot in the eye with rubber projectiles, said Michael
Cook, the chief executive there; most of the damaged eyes were left sightless,
he said.

Israel's critics, backed by the European Union, are calling for an international
inquest into the casualties. At least 42 Palestinians have been killed in the
clashes, including 13 children. And for the first time since peace talks led to
the creation of the Palestinian Authority six years ago, Israelis have fired on
civilians from helicopter gunships used armor-piercing missiles.

To the dismay of Israeli officials, the United States has joined in the
criticism. At the United Nations Security Council meeting in New York today, the
United States provisionally endorsed a draft statement condemning Israel for
"the acts of provocation, the violence, and the excessive use of deadly force
against Palestinian civilians in the past few days."

Many of the other 14 Security Council members, over unyielding American
objections, pressed unsuccessfully for stronger language accusing Israel of
violating the 1949 Fourth Geneva Convention, which sets rules for the treatment
of civilians by occupying military powers.

The government of Israel contends it is not an occupying military power in East
Jerusalem or the Palestinian territories under the terms of the convention.

Israeli Army officers acknowledged today that their troops may have been
responsible for killing 12-year-old Muhammed al-Durrah in Gaza on Saturday. His
death has been universally acknowledged as both tragic and politically costly
for the Israelis.

But some international commentators found the killing of a Palestinian Red
Crescent ambulance driver who was trying to come to the boy's aid equally
disturbing. In an unusual written protest, the International Committee of the
Red Cross publicly "deplored" the driver's death and cited the obligations of
military forces under the Fourth Geneva Convention to "respect and protect
civilians and to apply the principle of proportionality whenever the use of
force is required."

At least 18 Red Crescent ambulances have been hit by gunfire, said Uriel Masad,
the International Red Cross spokesman in Israel. The Red Cross also condemned
the 11 reported attacks in Palestinian areas on Israeli Magen David Adom
ambulances.

"We don't think that the ambulances are being targeted," Mr. Masad said. "The
problem is probably that some ambulances, especially the Palestinian ambulances,
head right into the middle of the battlefield.

"But if they are suddenly in the midst of the crossfire, their work must still
be respected. Halt the shooting, and let them tend to the wounded. Then resume
your killing, if you must."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             729 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 11, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

WHOSE HOLY LAND? THE OVERVIEW;
MIDEAST VIOLENCE BEGINS TO SUBSIDE AS DIPLOMATS TALK

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1136 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 10


Israelis and Palestinians backed haltingly away from confrontation today as
armed clashes subsided and a parade of diplomatic visitors urged both sides to
rein in violence.

For the first time in 12 days the violence began to subside. The most serious
casualty today was a 12-year-old Palestinian boy in Gaza, who was critically
wounded. Street battles between Israeli troops and rock-throwing Palestinian
protesters were confined largely to Gaza and the West Bank city of Ramallah,
where volleys of Israeli rubber bullets wounded dozens of Palestinians.

Israeli commanders said they were limiting the use of live ammunition in an
effort to avoid fatalities, and Israeli officials said there were indications
that some Palestinian officials were actively discouraging mob clashes with
Israeli troops.

In Washington, a senior administration official said President Clinton had
abandoned the idea of a broad summit meeting and was considering holding
separate meetings with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and Yasir Arafat, the
Palestinian leader. But the president first wanted to evaluate whether the
reduced violence was a trend or just a respite, the official said.

In the space of a few hours this afternoon, Mr. Barak held successive
closed-door sessions with the secretary general of the United Nations, the
foreign policy chief of the European Union and the foreign minister of Russia,
all of whom were coming from or heading to meetings with Mr. Arafat. Secretary
of State Madeleine K. Albright spoke repeatedly to officials on both sides by
phone today, while Robin Cook, the British foreign secretary, was scheduled to
arrive on Wednesday.

Also joining in the intensive diplomatic effort was Martin Indyk, the United
States ambassador to Israel, who was back in his office after his security
clearance was restored on Monday. The State Department revoked the clearance
last month after discovering a supposed mishandling of classified computer
files.

After a marathon cabinet meeting that ended early this morning, Mr. Barak
acceded to international pressure to extend the Monday night deadline he had
declared for the Palestinians to cease their violence or face stern Israeli
retaliation.

After the cabinet meeting, Mr. Barak said Israel would wait another three or
four days before deciding whether to end peace talks and respond to street
violence with greater military force than it has displayed so far.

"I am very grateful that the prime minister and the cabinet yesterday decided
not to stick to the deadline," said Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary
general, following his meeting with Mr. Barak. "I think it helps."

The Palestinians, meanwhile, invited observers to their hasty restoration work
at Joseph's Tomb, a Jewish shrine in Nablus that was burned and ransacked by
Arab rioters on Saturday after Israeli forces withdrew and turned the protection
of the site over to Palestinian security forces.

Despite such gestures, the hostility between Israeli and Palestinian leaders
remained on display today, as Mr. Arafat taunted Mr. Barak for "giving one
warning after another" and Mr. Barak's aides questioned Mr. Arafat's
trustworthiness as a negotiating partner.

"Some of the diplomats who have visited us in recent days have said maybe Mr.
Arafat wants to control the violence, but he is incapable," said Shlomo Ben-Ami,
the dovish academic who is Israel's acting foreign minister. "The only answer
one can give to this is, if he is incapable of controlling violence in his
territory, what kind of a partner is he? We have a problem with Arafat if
willingly he does not control violence, but also if unwillingly he does not
control it."

Mr. Barak, meanwhile, came under renewed attack from the Israeli right, which
publicly spurned his earlier tentative offer to bring the opposition into a new
national unity government. Ariel Sharon, the leader of the Likud Party,
denounced Mr. Barak's decision to extend the deadline for the Palestinians, and
vowed to push for early elections rather than enter a new coalition government.

Mr. Barak justified his decision to extend the deadline by citing the insistent
appeals from Mr. Annan, President Clinton and other world leaders to give both
Mr. Arafat and the situation on the street more time.

But he said that unless the confrontations are brought under control by the
weekend, Israel will respond to rioting and attacks on Israeli posts and
settlements with greater force.

"If we find ourselves in a long, painful, difficult confrontation of many long
months, there'll be no importance to our having held on for another 72 or 96
hours," Mr. Barak said.

Mr. Annan, who met three times in the last 24 hours with Mr. Arafat, is also
working to obtain the release of three Israeli soldiers who were captured by
Hezbollah guerrillas on Sunday on the Israeli-Lebanese border. The soldiers are
reliably reported to be alive, said Mr. Annan, who goes from here to Beirut in
an effort to arrange a visit to the hostages by Red Cross or United Nations
representatives.

Immediately after his meeting with Mr. Annan, Mr. Barak received the Russian
foreign minister, Igor Ivanov, who arrived in Israel late Monday following his
own discussions in Beirut and Damascus about the captured Israeli soldiers.

Mr. Barak said he would accept an American invitation to resume talks with Mr.
Arafat, but only if the violence remained in check and Mr. Arafat displayed a
willingness to compromise.

An earlier proposal by Washington to hold a meeting in Egypt in the next few
days was squelched today by Egypt's foreign minister, who said his government's
diplomatic focus now is on the Arab League meeting scheduled to open in 10 days
in Cairo. American diplomats said they were concerned that this first full
meeting of the pan-Arab organization in a decade -- with Iraq and Libya expected
to play roles -- could further harden sentiment in the region against a
territorial compromise between the Palestinians and Israel.

Palestinian officials continue to insist on an international investigatory
commission into the past 12 days of violence as a prerequisite for the
resumption of negotiations. They have rejected a proposed tripartite
American-Israeli-Palestinian inquiry as insufficient.

"There can be no peace talks without an international investigation," Hassan
Asfour, a senior Palestinian negotiator, said in an interview today. "Our people
did not die for nothing."

Over Israel's objections, the United Nations Human Rights Commission may be
ready to embark on such an investigation, however. In Geneva, the commission
voted to approve an Arab League request today to examine the violence in an
unusual special session, the kind used in the past to investigate human rights
atrocities in Rwanda and Bosnia.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kofi Annan, the secretary general of the United Nations, met
yesterday in Jerusalem with Israel's prime minister, Ehud Barak, left, and in
Gaza City with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, right, and the Russian
foreign minister, Igor Ivanov, in an effort to end 12 days of violence.
(Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. A10)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             730 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 18, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

WHOSE HOLY LAND?: THE OUTLOOK;
For Clinton, the Suspense Is Not Over

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

DATELINE: SHARM EL SHEIK, Egypt, Oct. 17


Seven years after President Clinton presided over a historic handshake between
Israeli and Palestinian leaders in the Rose Garden, he tried one more time today
to move the Middle East toward some kind of lasting peace.

But today, all he could do was read an agreement that neither Ehud Barak, the
Israeli prime minister, nor Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, was willing to
sign, to read aloud or to answer questions about.

Mr. Clinton flew halfway around the world on short notice to get that agreement
-- in effect, to provide what one diplomat called "a mutual climb-down
mechanism" -- after the deadliest eruption of violence in the Middle East since
the president helped initiate the Oslo process.

It was expected to be the last such role Mr. Clinton would play before his
successor is elected in three weeks, and possibly before leaving the White
House.

But it was still a pivotal role. Mr. Clinton's personality and his ability to
connect with Mr. Arafat provided a constant thread through the negotiations,
American officials and other participants at the summit meeting said. His
back-to-back, separate sessions with Mr. Barak and Mr. Arafat were a crucial
bridge between two men no longer able even to meet face to face.

What the president achieved was better than a breakdown in talks, and better
than not coming at all, his senior advisers said afterward. Still, Mr. Clinton
best expressed the sudden dive in Middle East fortunes and the difficulties in
restoring them when he told the news conference today, "We should have no
illusions about the difficulties ahead."

Just as he did seven years ago when he was the host on the White House lawn for
a handshake between Mr. Arafat and the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin,
Mr. Clinton had to rely on the help of others at Sharm el Sheik.

This morning, when the summit meeting came to a boil over Mr. Arafat's
insistence on a fact-finding mission into the violence in late September, Mr.
Clinton called on the Egyptian leader Hosni Mubarak to help him out. And before
the summit meeting began, Mr. Clinton had the assistance of the United Nations
secretary general, Kofi Annan, who shuttled between Israel and the Palestinian
territories for two days, using his moral persuasion to get Mr. Arafat to attend
the meeting.

This morning with Mr. Mubarak at his side, Mr. Clinton drew Mr. Arafat into a
room. Mr. Clinton explained, according to a senior administration official, that
Mr. Barak has agreed to withdraw to military positions as they existed before
Sept. 28 and to reopen crossings to the West Bank and Gaza.

The official said Mr. Clinton then put a couple of pointed arguments before Mr.
Arafat: Wasn't this more important to his people than an inquiry? Wasn't it more
important to keep the foundation agreement of the summit meeting rather than
vitiate it on the composition of a summit? Mr. Arafat finally agreed to American
domination of the inquiry.

With that, Mr. Clinton emerged from the summit meeting with his relations with
Mr. Barak and Mr. Arafat apparently intact. The Palestinian, in contrast to his
delegation, showed remarkable restraint in his rhetoric, an aide to Mr. Clinton
said. Mr. Barak, whom the president first got to know nearly 18 months ago when
he was the new prime minister of Israel, was in a way Mr. Clinton's dream
Israeli prime minister. Mr. Barak had run on a platform of peace, but now that
dream had been broken. Even so, Mr. Barak returned to Israel tonight with Mr.
Clinton's friendship as firm as ever, the White House said.

For this summit meeting, Mr. Clinton set limited, though realistic, goals, the
White House said before it began. And on paper, he appeared to have achieved
them. But the fruits of this meeting were a long way from the deal he was so
close to closing at Camp David three months ago.

"If this hasn't exploded in six weeks, we'll know the peace process is
irreversible," a member of Mr. Clinton's Middle East peace team said, clinging
to the hope that a scheduled meeting in two weeks of negotiators for both sides
in Washington might reinvigorate what seemed so fruitful at Camp David.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             731 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 18, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

WHOSE HOLY LAND?: THE REGION;
Eyes Are Now on the Arab Leaders

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1101 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, Oct. 17


Arab leaders, uneasy riders atop a wave of militant anti-Israel sentiment across
the Middle East, began to regroup after the Sharm el Sheik summit meeting today
in preparation for a weekend meeting of their own that will test regional
support for a negotiated peace with Israel.

The tone of the coming meeting in Cairo of Arab League heads of state -- the
first such high-level conference in 10 years -- will largely depend on how
Israelis and Palestinians respond to the agreement forged at their two-day
meeting in the Egyptian resort town, said officials and experts around the
region.

"If the coming days bring no change from Israel, then the Arab summit will be
under tremendous pressure to do something about the situation in the Palestinian
territories," said Abdel Moneim Said, director of the Al Ahram Center for
Political and Strategic Studies here. "This will also directly affect the
Palestinian, Egyptian and Jordanian leaders' ability to sell any agreement to
their people."

The American-guided meeting in Sharm el Sheik, sponsored by President Hosni
Mubarak of Egypt, ended today with mixed results -- at least in the view of Arab
leaders, who had hoped for a more resounding affirmation of Palestinian
grievances.

Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, like the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat,
pledged to work toward stopping the violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
But Mr. Arafat, bowing to pressure from the United States, abandoned his demand
for a United Nations investigation into his charges that Israel has used
excessive force in nearly three weeks of clashes with Palestinians.

Concern that a disaffected Arab League could decide on a hard-line rejection of
all dealings with Israel, bringing the region back to the hostile standoff that
existed until the last few years, may lead to a new round of regional
consultations.

With the Arab meeting set to begin Saturday, the principal leaders who could set
the mood and lead the debate began consultations immediately after the Sharm el
Sheik meeting.

In Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Crown Prince Abdullah met with President Bashar
al-Assad of Syria, who was on a tour of the Persian Gulf states, before the
Sharm el Sheik meeting ended. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright also flew
immediately to Riyadh to brief the prince on the Sharm el Sheik results and to
press for a restrained Arab response on regional relations with Israel.

The fierce Palestinian-Israeli clashes will certainly be the central focus of
the Arab League meeting, which was specifically called to formulate a united
Arab response to the situation.

At a minimum, the assembled leaders of the 22-nation group are expected to make
a declaration of solid Arab support for Mr. Arafat and for Palestinians. But
events over the next few days could well determine how far beyond that axiomatic
declaration the leaders are willing to go. Already, official statements from
Syria, Iraq and some conservative Persian Gulf states have lauded the
Palestinian attacks on Israelis as a holy uprising that should not only continue
but be accorded the Arab world's full backing.

A number of Arab leaders, as well as Palestinian officials, have also openly
questioned whether the triangular peace negotiations of the last seven years --
between Israel and the Palestinians with the United States as interlocuter --
ought to remain the model for future talks.

A traditional Arab demand, before the direct Palestinian-Israeli negotiations
began after the Oslo accord in 1993, has been for the United Nations to take the
lead role. Israel, suspicious of the United Nations, has long opposed such a
model.

The strain of keeping the Arab League from abandoning support for
Palestinian-Israeli peace talks is particularly acute for President Mubarak and
for King Abdullah of Jordan. Theirs are the only Arab countries to maintain full
diplomatic relations with Israel.

With the signing of their peace treaties, both Egypt in 1979 and Jordan in 1994
were rewarded with enormous annual infusions of American aid money that bound
them as never before to the United States. Both Mr. Mubarak and Jordan's king
have staked their political credibility on pushing Mr. Arafat and Israel to
negotiate instead of fight.

Both leaders -- the only Arab heads of state who attended the Sharm el Sheik
meeting -- have been trying to show empathy with the outpouring of popular anger
on behalf of the Palestinians and at the same time to accommodate American
pressure to maintain relations with Israel.

"The majority of our population is of Palestinian origin and is linked to what
is happening in Palestine," said Taher al Masri, a former Jordanian prime
minister whose family roots are in the West Bank. "Those factors have forced the
king to take a balanced position to the situation. He really had to go closely
in support of Palestinians and Palestinian demands, without at the same time
affecting our treaty and relations with Israel."

Demonstrations against Israel and the United States have been especially furious
in Jordan and in Egypt.

Saudi Arabia could also play a moderating role at the Arab summit meeting if the
situation in the Palestinian territories stabilizes quickly.

The crown prince, who has been effectively running his country during the
illness of his brother, King Fahd, has taken a more active and public role in
Arab diplomacy than any of his predecessors. He has been harshly critical of
Israel and has issued vague warnings that Saudi Arabia would react if Israel
continued to battle Palestinians.

But, like other Saudi leaders before him, he also has shown little interest in
involving Saudi Arabia directly in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, except to
insist that neither he nor any other Muslim leader will accept any final deal
that does not give sovereignty over East Jerusalem to the Palestinians.

If asked to take a position one way or the other on the specifics of how or if
the Palestinians should talk to Israel, he may abstain. "He will say, go and do
what you want and don't involve me," said Muhammad Salahuddin, a veteran Saudi
political analyst and magazine publisher.

Saudi Arabia, however, will be a leading force in rejecting any attempt to
finesse the core issue of East Jerusalem, where Palestinians have demanded full
sovereignty.

"The crown prince has explicitly said lately that no one whatsoever can dare to
surrender one inch of Jerusalem," Mr. Salahuddin said, adding that any agreement
that dilutes Arab control of the city would expose Arab governments to dangerous
domestic problems.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt during
the presentation of the final statement of the Sharm el Sheik meeting. (Agence
France-Presse)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             732 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 23, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

WHOSE HOLY LAND? THE ISRAELI LEADERS;
Barak Formally Declares Timeout in the Peace Effort

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 22


Despite intense criticism from key figures in his government, Prime Minister
Ehud Barak today formally declared a "timeout" from the peace effort.

Mr. Barak first made this declaration conditionally on Friday, saying he would
await the outcome of the Arab League summit meeting in Cairo. Today, after Arab
leaders excoriated the Israelis as expected, Mr. Barak said Israel needed time
to reassess its approach to the seven-year-old, American-brokered effort.

It remained unclear what Mr. Barak meant by a "timeout," what would bring it to
an end, and why he had pinned his formal announcement to the unsurprising end of
the Arab meeting. Also, to many, the declaration seemed academic. The daily
street clashes, which left at least four more Palestinians dead today, have
constituted a de facto suspension of the peace effort anyway.

But Mr. Barak, who is tiptoeing between his diplomatic fate and his political
one, initially took few steps to clarify himself. His public statements were
Delphic; he was committed to the "peace of the brave" and not to the "peace of
ostriches," he said.

Stung by criticism, he then said: "One would have to be blind to continue with
the peace process as if nothing was happening." Privately, he seemed to be
keeping his options open.

On the one hand, he told his cabinet this morning that he remained committed to
pursuing peace and to the understandings reached with the Palestinians at Camp
David in July, ministers said. He minimized the importance of the timeout and
outraged some ministers by declaring that he did not need to put his "technical"
decision to a vote.

On the other hand, as part of his effort to forge a unity government with the
right-wing leader Ariel Sharon, Mr. Barak gave the impression that he was
willing to abandon any immediate goal of resuming "final status" negotiations
with the Palestinians. Mr. Sharon's key condition for joining forces is that Mr.
Barak renege on the Camp David understandings, too.

Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, said on returning to Gaza City from Cairo
that he had expected Mr. Barak to suspend Israel's participation in the peace
process. He said Palestinians were "continuing on their road to Jerusalem, the
capital of our independent state."

"To accept it or not accept, let him go to hell," he said.

In the political center of Israel, the fighting sounded particularly close to
home tonight. In retaliation for renewed shooting into the Gilo neighborhood of
Jerusalem, Israeli helicopter gunships fired rockets on the Palestinian town of
Beit Jala next to Bethlehem. The boom of missiles hitting their target -- a tile
and marble factory -- resounded in the night, as frightened residents of Beit
Jala who did not heed the Israelis' call to evacuate huddled in their homes.

Many Israeli ministers, furious that Mr. Barak did not consult them before he
floated his timeout proposal in television interviews on Friday night, spent a
good part of today trying to puzzle out his intentions.

"To re-assess the situation, I personally would need only 24 hours," Amnon
Lipkin-Shahak, the transportation minister and a senior peace negotiator, said
in an interview. "Practically, anyway, the violence is still with us, and as
people are still shooting at each other, we have plenty of time to think without
calling a timeout and giving the impression that Israel is closing the door on
peace."

Yossi Beilin, the justice minister, said in an interview that he opposed Mr.
Barak's decision but understood it. "There is so much pressure, to talk to
people under fire in Jerusalem is not exactly his dream," he said. "There is a
feeling that something has to be said and something has to be done," Mr. Beilin
added. "And timeout is a way to express that it is not business as usual."

Mr. Sharon said Mr. Barak seemed to be espousing contradictory thoughts. "The
prime minister is trying to travel simultaneously on two trains going in
opposite directions," he told the Israeli radio. "First, there is one, national
unity, that would lead to security and a more correct diplomatic process.
Second, there is one going in the direction -- backward -- of Oslo." That was a
reference to the interim peace agreement of 1993.

A union between the two leaders would shore up Mr. Barak's faltering minority
government and give an extended lease on political life to Mr. Sharon. Both men
face opposition to the unity government within their own camps, however, just as
both would probably face opposition for party leadership if new elections were
to be called.

The deadline for their political negotiations is believed to be Oct. 29, when
Parliament reconvenes.

Mr. Sharon is reviled in the Arab world, which holds him responsible for
provoking the present violence by a heavily guarded, politicized visit to the
Muslim compound in the heart of the Old City. The Israelis say the Palestinians
used Mr. Sharon's trip as a pretext for a planned uprising.

Israeli television reported tonight that Mr. Sharon's demands for joining a
national emergency government were many. They include a shift in goal to a
long-term interim arrangement with the Palestinians rather than resolving all
issues in a final accord; a commitment to keep all settlements intact; and an
end to "the policy of restraint" when reacting to Palestinian rioters.

Some Israelis today lamented the fact that the state of emergency in which
Israel finds itself has become entwined with the political realities of a weak
prime minister.

"This timeout is tantamount to the sacrifice of the peace process for the sake
of the prime minister's political future," said Taleb el-Asana, an Israeli-Arab
lawmaker.

Moshe Shahal, a former Labor Party minister, said, "The prime minister's
announcement represents more his internal political distress than a considered
diplomatic declaration."

Martin Indyk, the American ambassador, indicated in a speech that Washington was
distressed by Mr. Barak's contingency plan for a broken peace effort: a
unilateral separation from the Palestinians.

"Israelis and Palestinians are bound, even condemned, to live together side by
side," Mr. Indyk said. "There is no separation that can exist in these
circumstances."

After the Arab summit meeting ended, many Palestinians expressed deep
disappointment at what they saw as the Arab leaders' "diluted" endorsement of
their struggle.

The Israeli government's responses to the Arab meeting were muddled, coming in
the form of two seemingly contrasting statements and then two separate
clarifications.

First, the government spokesman, Nachman Shai, praised the moderating influence
of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. But then, in a flurry of clarifications,
the Israelis condemned the summit meeting's "language of threats" against
Israel.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ehud Barak issued his first responses yesterday to the Arab
League meeting, while Yasir Arafat returned to Gaza after being in Cairo.
(Associated Press); (Reuters); Palestinian youths throwing stones yesterday at
Israeli Army vehicles in the West Bank town of Hebron. (Agence France-Presse)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             733 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 24, 2000, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Intelligence Chief Returns, Sending Peru Into Disarray

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, Oct. 23


A month after fleeing, the former intelligence chief returned here today,
plunging the government of President Alberto K. Fujimori into disarray.

First Vice President Francisco Tudela, a close ally of Mr. Fujimori, resigned,
saying of the intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, who fled to escape
allegations of corruption, "The game he is playing with the country outrages
me."

Downtown Lima was filled with tear gas as the police and protesters clashed.
Opposition leaders, fearing that Mr. Montesinos might be planning a coup with
the military high command, pledged to take to the streets.

In Washington, a spokesman for the White House, Jake Siewert, said, "Any move to
disrupt the constitutional order would lead to Peru's isolation."

It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Montesinos's return was the last play
of a high-stakes gambler or part of an army plot to force the opposition to
accept a sweeping amnesty for the security forces, covering not only human
rights violations, but perhaps also arms trafficking and drug dealing.

Over the last three days, the government has proposed an amnesty as part of the
Constitution, a step that would require 80 of the 120 votes in Congress. Because
the government has a paper-thin majority in the legislature, it would need the
opposition to go along.

The government is insisting that an amnesty has to be set before a date for
presidential elections can be scheduled. Senior military officials have been
pressing Mr. Fujimori for the amnesty.

Mr. Montesinos left Panama City, where he had been in exile, on Sunday evening
on a private jet with two Panamanian lawyers and a bodyguard for Guayaquil,
Ecuador. The former intelligence chief never left the Guayaquil airport, where
he reportedly bought food and cellular telephone cards. In the predawn hours,
his aircraft flew to Peru without an official flight plan.

Authorities at the Lima international airport refused to give Mr. Montesinos
permission to land, Peruvian officials said, and the plane continued to Pisco,
on the Pacific Coast, 160 miles south of Lima, where he landed before dawn today
at the airport on a strip controlled by the air force.

According to radio reports, Mr. Montesinos spent the day in a military hanger in
Pisco, where the air force keeps a fleet of combat jets and military
helicopters. By nightfall his whereabouts were not clear.

The response of government officials was one of surprise and confusion. Second
Vice President Ricardo Marquez called Mr. Montesinos's return worrisome, adding,
"If he is trying to pressure the country, it should not be permitted."

Prime Minister Federico Salas said Mr. Montesinos had chosen to leave Panama
because he believed that he would not be granted asylum. "If he comes to Lima,"
Mr. Salas said, "I presume he will go to his law office."

Mr. Fujimori remained silent. He spent much of the day in the presidential
palace, where he summoned his cabinet and the commanders of the navy, air force
and army for consultations. Late in the afternoon, he drove in a motorcade with
his interior and defense ministers to visit military and intelligence
installations around Lima.

Military analysts characterized Mr. Montesinos's landing here as a direct
challenge to the president's authority by the military. "If the president
doesn't take drastic action, we are on the cusp of a great crisis," Daniel Mora,
a retired army general, said. "He must show he is the commander in chief."

United States diplomats said Mr. Fujimori and cabinet members spoke to Mr.
Montesinos last week, requesting that he not return.

"This was the last thing they wanted," said a senior Clinton administration
official.

Mr. Montesinos, for 10 years Mr. Fujimori's closest adviser, was not legally
barred from returning.

Even as he sought asylum in Panama, Mr. Montesinos continued to pull strings in
Peru and even spoke regularly on the telephone with Mr. Fujimori. The president,
after a disputed re-election, stunned the nation last month by saying he would
step down in July.

The lead prosecutor, chosen by Mr. Montesinos, declared during his stay in
Panama that there would be no investigation or prosecution of the former spy
chief.

Opposition leaders called for Mr. Fujimori to step down, to be replaced by a
transitional government through the election of a new president. The transition
administration would include independents and a retired general, Francisco
Morales Bermudez, the last military dictator who ushered in a return to
democracy in the late 70's.

Mr. Fujimori "has been pinned to the wall and can no longer govern," Mayor
Alberto Andrade of Lima said.

Mr. Montesinos has been a lightning rod of controversy since the presidential
campaign this year. He ran a dirty tricks campaign against opposition candidates
and directed the election apparatus that came under heavy criticism from the
Organization of American States for fraud.

A man with a taste for double-breasted suits and Bach, Mr. Montesinos was long a
close associate of the Central Intelligence Agency, according to Peruvian and
American officials. He directed an antinarcotics unit in the National
Intelligence Service with C.I.A. guidance and was a conduit for United States
intelligence and advice in antiterrorism efforts, the officials said.

His relationship to the United States dates from the 70's, when he was a captain
in the prime minister's office. He was cashiered and imprisoned by the army in
1977, after he had been found handing documents to the United States that
detailed Russian arms sales to the left-wing military government and traveling
to Washington without permission.

The Clinton administration finally broke with Mr. Montesinos two months ago,
when evidence emerged that former and current military officials allied with Mr.
Montesinos had sold Russian rifles to the largest Marxist guerrilla group in
Colombia, United States officials said. Former Peruvian intelligence officers
have said Mr. Montesinos was involved in the gun-running or knew about it but
remained quiet.

Mr. Montesinos was finally forced to leave his position as unofficial head of
national intelligence last month, when a cable television station displayed a
tape that showed him handing over an envelope stuffed with cash to a newly
elected opposition member of Congress in return for a promise to switch parties.
The tape was apparently leaked to the station by navy officers attached to the
intelligence agency.

At first, Mr. Fujimori dismissed Mr. Montesinos. But members of the army high
command stood by the intelligence chief. With his powers dwindling, Mr. Fujimori
stunned the nation by announcing that he would leave office on July 28, after
new elections and four years before the end of his third term.

He also promised to disband the the intelligence unit run by Mr. Montesinos,
whose activities have been taken over by army intelligence.

Alejandro Toledo, an opposition leader who ran for president, said the
opposition would not go along with the proposal for amnesty for military
officers. "We cannot accept gangster extortion," Mr. Toledo said.

Santiago Pedraglio, a columnist for Gestion, a newspaper in Lima, called Mr.
Montesinos's return "an act of political desperation" and said him and his
allies in the military, "They can still cause great problems, but they are
strategically defeated."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vladimiro Montesinos, left, former spy chief, who returned to
Peru, and First Vice President Francisco Tudela, who resigned yesterday.
(Photographs by Reuters)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             734 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 26, 2000, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

As Tensions Ease, Calm Settles on West Bank and Gaza

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 25


A relative calm prevailed on the streets of the West Bank and Gaza Strip for the
third day today, as both sides seemed to be taking a deep breath and considering
their options.

Prime Minister Ehud Barak's chief of staff, Gilead Sher, said tensions seemed to
be easing. There were no major demonstrations or confrontations at Israeli
roadblocks and only a few minor clashes under gray, storm-lashed skies.

President Clinton called Mr. Barak and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, on
Tuesday, in an effort to quell the violence of the last three weeks that has
killed more than 130 people -- nearly all of them Arabs.  "If it continues to be
calm, and by the way, since last night there's a feeling things have calmed down
on the Palestinian side," Mr. Sher told Israel radio, "we will do our part and
withdraw our forces according to the Sharm understandings." He was referring to
Israeli troops positioned along the outskirts of the Palestinian areas, where
they have been the targets of protests, and to the truce framework brokered in
Egypt at Sharm el Sheik.

While the stone-throwing slackened, a different kind of warfare seemed to break
out in a totally different sphere, the Internet.

The Foreign Ministry's Web site crashed today under a coordinated assault by
thousands of pro-Palestinian computer users who called it up simultaneously. In
Beirut last week, Hezbollah, the Shiite Muslim militia group, said that its Web
site had gone down under a similar attack by Israeli hackers. Hezbollah said it
was designing countermeasures.

A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Uri Noy, said the attack was traced to what he
called a "a pro-Palestinian and pro-Shiite Muslim" Web site in the United States
that had urged users to flood the Israeli site.

On Tuesday night, Mr. Barak quietly dispatched one of his top security aides,
Yossi Ginosaur, to Gaza to meet with Muhammad Dahlan, the Palestinian chief of
security there.

Mr. Dahlan is a central figure in the cooperation efforts between Palestinian
and Israeli security officials which is being overseen by an American -- George
J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence. At the Camp David summit meeting
last July, Mr. Dahlan was said to have been among the most amenable of the
Palestinian negotiators to compromise, and he reportedly established a rapport
with his counterpart Shlomo Ben-Ami, the Israeli foreign minister.

Negotiations throughout the day today produced a meeting between ranking Israeli
and Palestinian military commanders. The head of the Israeli Army's Southern
Command, Maj. Gen. Yom-Tov Samia, sat down in Gaza with a Palestinian, Maj. Gen.
Abdel-Razek al-Majayden, for talks the Israelis said were aimed at "lowering
significantly the level of friction and violence in the field."

Efforts were under way to set up a similar meeting between Maj. Gen. Yutzhak
Eitan, head of the Israeli Central Command, which operates on the West Bank, and
his Palestinian counterpart.

The army's chief of operations, Maj. Gen. Giora Eilaud, said, "There is a U.S.
effort to calm the situation, and this has brought about the willingness by the
Palestinians to attend a meeting with us."

But General Eilaud and other Israeli commanders are worried that the conflict
with the Palestinians could shift from street rioting to a nagging low-level
guerrilla war with the kind of shooting incidents that have become nightly
occurrences, particularly in Hebron. There have been 600 such incidents, General
Eilaud told reporters at a briefing today, most of them involving small groups
of Palestinians sneaking up on Israeli positions at night and opening fire.

"The number of these incidents had been from 25 to 30 a day," he said, adding
that "the number is diminishing. In the past 24 hours there have been only a few
shooting incidents. On the other hand, some of these incidents were more
severe."

Today in the Gaza Strip, for example, a roadside bomb went off near an Israeli
Army convoy, and Palestinian gunmen then opened fire.  There were no casualties.

There was no gunfire last night between the Palestinian town of Beit Jela and
the neighboring settlement of Gilo. There was some shooting reported, however,
from the West Bank town of El-Bireh toward a nearby settlement. The American
Consulate here issued a stern warning today urging citizens to "defer all travel
to Israel, the West Bank and Gaza."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Palestinian farmers rode a donkey cart past an Israeli tank in
the Gaza Strip yesterday. Relative calm has prevailed in the area over the past
three days, after four weeks of fighting between Israelis and Palestinians.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             735 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 30, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Barak Gets a Breather as He Tries to Form a Unity Government

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 29


Prime Minister Ehud Barak failed today to forge an emergency unity government
with the right wing, but he is nonetheless unlikely to face immediate dismissal
when Parliament reconvenes Monday after a three-month recess.

The ultra-Orthodox Shas Party, which pulled out of the government before Mr.
Barak went to the Camp David peace talks in July, said today that it would grant
the prime minister a temporary "safety net" while violence continues to rage
between Israeli troops and Palestinians. At least three more Palestinians died
in confrontations today.

In Gaza, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, said his people would remain
steadfast "until a boy or girl holds the flag of Palestine over Jerusalem, the
capital of our future Palestinian state."

The reopening session of Parliament is still expected to be stormy. But since
Shas has a linchpin 17-vote bloc, its support prevents any immediate
parliamentary motion to dissolve the faltering government and provoke a
political crisis in the midst of an unsettling diplomatic one.

Mr. Barak's associates say he is chagrined at being rescued by the party that
destabilized his coalition. But Shas has bought Mr. Barak time to continue
negotiations with the opposition Likud Party or simply to survive a bit longer
at the helm of a minority government destined to fall.

Speaking on Israel Radio, Mr. Barak said Shas's move would allow his government
to confront this period of violence "without being harassed daily" by the
political mood swings of the Parliament.

Shas leaders offered to extend their guarantee of support for a fixed period --
a month, say -- if Mr. Barak would drop his plans for a "civil revolution" that
would reduce the power of religious parties and authorities. Given that all of
Mr. Barak's plans have been frozen by the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, that
demand does not seem to be particularly difficult to meet.

Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, Shas's influential spiritual leader, declared Mr. Barak's
government to be bankrupt in a sermon on Saturday night. But he also endorsed a
return to the peace table if the violence ebbed as Israel's only option.

Earlier today, Mr. Barak said he was closer than ever to forging a political
deal with Ariel Sharon, the Likud leader. But a two-hour afternoon meeting
between Mr. Barak, who leads the Labor Party, and Mr. Sharon ended without a
deal.

The proposal for a unity government faces intense opposition within both parties
-- the Labor peace camp and the Likud nationalist camp, whose ideological
differences have blurred during the last month's violence but nonetheless
remain.

American and European allies of Mr. Barak have also urged him to refrain from an
alliance that could make it more difficult to revive peace talks. The Arab world
holds Mr. Sharon responsible for provoking the current violence by a heavily
guarded, politicized visit to the plaza outside Al Aksa Mosque in the Old City
of Jerusalem on Sept. 28. Israelis say that visit served as the pretext for a
planned uprising.

Political negotiations between Labor and Likud have snagged on the issues of how
power would be shared -- and specifically on whether Mr. Sharon would have a
veto over peace moves -- and how the unified government would approach
peacemaking if the violence receded.

Israel Radio said the two men had agreed on a diplomatic program to "suit the
new circumstances that have been created." Their agreement would not mention the
Oslo interim peace agreement or the Camp David proposals, the radio said. But
Mr. Barak said resolutely, "There will be no veto over the prime minister."

A unity government would be a "survival embrace" for both men, as a senior
opposition figure described it today. It would extend their tenures as party
leaders and defer the seemingly inevitable move to new elections, in which both
would face challengers in their own parties.

Mr. Sharon faces the prospect of a political comeback by former Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu, who is more popular. And Mr. Barak could face a challenge
from Avraham Burg, the speaker of the Parliament. Mr. Burg, a young, religious
dove, has kept a critical distance from the prime minister since Mr. Barak took
office and is therefore less tainted by his perceived failures than other
challengers would be.

Even if Mr. Barak and Mr. Sharon succeed, any political realignment now would
most likely be temporary. An emergency government's future would depend on how
protracted the violent confrontations turned out to be, and on whether the
Palestinians made a unilateral declaration of statehood in the near future.

Such a declaration would provoke an Israeli reaction -- like the annexation of
Jewish settlement blocs in the West Bank -- and could propel the present
low-intensity confrontations into a period of greater conflict.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             736 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 1, 2000, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Angry at U.S., Arabs Widen Contacts With Iraq

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, Oct. 31


A growing number of Arab entertainers, intellectuals, politicians and business
people have been flying off to Baghdad over the last two weeks, thumbing their
noses at international sanctions and giving the Iraqi government a shower of
publicity after its 10 years of near isolation.

The support for Iraq is a spillover from the recent outbreak of
Palestinian-Israeli violence, which has prompted a resurgence of public support
for the idea that the West, led by the United States, behaves badly toward the
Arab world.

That has never been far from the oratorical surface. But once again, in a way
that must please the Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein, the rallying cry for
people from across the Arab political spectrum is "double standard," a shorthand
reference to what is seen as American reluctance to hold Israel to account for
its treatment of Palestinians.

To express their disaffection, in a dozen instances people in Lebanon, Egypt,
Syria, Libya, Yemen and Jordan have not only embraced the Palestinian cause but
have also chartered airplanes to fly to a hero's welcome at Saddam International
Airport. Iraq reopened the airport in August as a challenge to the United
Nations sanctions imposed after its invasion of Kuwait in 1990.

The latest to bow to the public mood and sign up for a flight was the Jordanian
prime minister, Ali Abu al-Ragheb. He said he would fly to Baghdad on Wednesday
to attend a trade fair aimed at "promoting the good relations between the two
countries." Mr. Abu al-Ragheb, who will take 100 Jordanian journalists and
politicians with him, would be the highest-ranking Arab official to arrive by
air since the embargo went into effect.

In the view of the Clinton administration, some of the flights have violated the
sanctions because they did not deliver aid for civilians or did not receive
advance United Nations clearance.

Other countries, notably France and Russia, have argued that civilian flights
were never specifically banned, although no one tested the point until recently.

Some who have recently made the journey say the point now is to contrast
American support for the Israeli government of Prime Minister Ehud Barak with
American opposition to lifting the embargo on Iraq and to make a point to Ariel
Sharon, the leader of the right-wing opposition Likud Party in Israel.

"We are sending a message to Barak and Sharon that we shall not stand with our
arms tied while you are killing Palestinians," said Muhammad Monieb, a Cairo
lawyer who organized a flight to Baghdad last weekend for about 150 Egyptian
celebrities.

Flying to Iraq is not meant to show personal support for the Iraqi president,
added Mr. Monieb, a former chairman of the Egyptian Organization for Human
Rights.

"We fully support the return of Iraq to the Arab family," he said. "All Arab
regimes are dictatorships. All Arab leaders commit mistakes against their own
people. If the Americans consider Saddam a dictator, then let them tell us who
is not a dictator in the region."

Iraq has responded to the recent political support from Arab countries by
stepping up its campaign to have the sanctions lifted or to undermine them. It
announced Monday that the state-owned airline, Iraqi Airways, would resume some
domestic service on Nov. 5.

The airline canceled all internal flights in 1992 when the United States and
Britain instituted no-flight zones aimed at protecting rebellious Kurds in the
northern part of Iraq and Shiite Muslims in the south from attacks by Iraqi
military planes and helicopters. American and British aircraft still patrol the
zones and Iraq says their attacks on antiaircraft installations since the end of
the gulf war have killed more than 300 people.

With stronger Arab public support, Iraq has also found a newly receptive
audience for its assertion that it is the only true defender of Arab and
Palestinian interests.

During the last week, as Arabs from other countries have been flying into
Baghdad with food and support for Iraqis, Iraq has been sending food and
supplies for the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. As Arab doctors
have flown in with medicines for Iraqis, the Iraqis welcomed a Palestinian plane
that brought several people wounded in clashes with Israelis to Baghdad for
medical treatment.

Still, the public support is unlikely to translate into open sanctions-busting
by Arab governments, most of which have urged the United Nations to lift
sanctions but have pledged to follow the international rules.

Arab governments also have decidedly mixed views on Saddam Hussein. While
several of the smaller Arab states have quietly re-established diplomatic
relations with Iraq over the past few years, the West's main allies, like Egypt,
have not reopened their embassies.

The Iraqi president's constant badgering of his fellow Arab leaders has not
helped relations. After the emergency Arab summit meeting this month to respond
to the Palestinian-Israeli violence, Iraq urged the overthrow of Arab
governments. The bellicose demand was particularly stinging because the Arab
League's invitation to Iraq to attend a summit meeting was the first in nearly
10 years.

Arab governments will nevertheless be obliged to take account of the public mood
and to offer support for the Iraqi people, said Soliman Awaad, director of
multinational relations in the Egyptian foreign ministry, adding, "We are under
tremendous pressure from public opinion -- and I'm not confining this to Egypt
only, but all through the region as well as from our civil society -- which is
being promoted by the West and the U.N."

Mr. Awaad, who advocates lifting the sanctions, said his office had been
inundated with requests from private groups to fly to Baghdad to show support
for Iraq, while normally apolitical taxi drivers and shopkeepers have been
badgering him about the sanctions.

"They are wondering about the silk glove used by the U.N. and its organizations
in dealing with Israel, and comparing it to the clumsy rough hand with regards
to Iraq," he said.

The sanctions on Iraq have become a constant irritant at the United Nations,
particularly between Security Council members with different views on how to
measure Iraqi compliance with the requirement that it no longer produce or store
any weapons of mass destruction. Iraq has refused entry to inspectors.

Various United Nations bodies now have a number of sanctions-related issues
before them.

Iraq recently announced, for example, that it would accept only euros in payment
for the oil that the United Nations allows it to sell, instead of dollars, which
it described as the currency of its enemy. The United Nations officials who
oversee oil sales as part of the embargo rules said Monday that they have asked
Iraq to delay carrying that out so they can study the idea.

For months, Iraq has also refused to accept an independent monitoring team
proposed by the United Nations to survey civilian living conditions. To try to
overcome its objections, Secretary General Kofi Annan proposed Monday that
Thorvald Stoltenberg, a former Norwegian foreign minister and United Nations
high commissioner for refugees, lead the survey committee.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             737 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 13, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton and Barak Meet With Reduced Expectations

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12


President Clinton met at the White House tonight with the Israeli prime
minister, Ehud Barak, for what promised to be a sober accounting of what the two
men could achieve -- or, more accurately, prevent -- in the short time that the
president, and perhaps the prime minister, remain in office.

As Mr. Barak arrived here after a day of more deaths in the Palestinian lands,
the denouement of a hijacking and the death of Leah Rabin, the mood was about as
far as it could be from the heady atmosphere 16 months ago when the newly
elected Israeli leader first met with Mr. Clinton.

Then, Mr. Barak came as an upbeat peacemaker, ready to do business with an
American president looking for a legacy and willing to negotiate with the
Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat.

Back then, the administration described Mr. Barak as a soldier-statesman
prepared to "break the mold," a man who might stand alongside Mr. Arafat with
Mr. Clinton as the host at a triumphant peace signing party.

Tonight, the talk was of trying to prevent disaster.

Specifically, administration officials said Mr. Clinton would be seeking ways to
prevent further escalation in the violence that has consumed the Palestinians
and Israelis for the last six weeks, claiming more than 200 lives, most of them
Palestinian. Further, the officials said, the president, who saw Mr. Arafat on
Thursday, would be trying to prevent either the Palestinians or Israelis from
taking sweeping unilateral actions that would inalterably change the political
landscape of the Middle East.

After the meeting between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Barak, a senior administration
official said that the White House had now heard from both leaders that they
wanted "to get back to the peace process."

The official said: "What they mean by that and how it gets done, we have to
continue to talk to them about. The lack of trust is such, it is not clear how
quickly this can be done." The official added that neither the Israelis nor the
Palestinians were "under the illusion" that there was a military solution.

Speaking at the White House after he had finished his session with Mr. Clinton,
Mr. Barak said, "We are concentrating first of all on holding the violence which
is continuing today at an inconceivable level, and we see it as a first and
vital step."

The Thursday meeting with Mr. Arafat occurred just hours after Israel tracked
down and killed a Fatah commander, an action that touched off more bloodshed and
debate about the tactics of both sides.

Little progress was reported from Mr. Clinton's session with Mr. Arafat,
although today a senior administration official said the president had heard
some "things that were interesting" to pass on to Mr. Barak.

Just before Mr. Clinton and Mr. Barak greeted each other at the White House
tonight, the administration official said, "Both sides are tempted to move away
from the negotiating table, a temptation that could take on a life of its own,"
adding that "both sides are playing with fire by taking steps" like that.

Before joining forces with the ultra-orthodox Shas party two weeks ago to head
off defeat in no-confidence votes in the Israeli Parliament and therefore extend
its life in office, Mr. Barak's government prepared the ground for a "unilateral
separation," or a clean break, with the Palestinians. That would involve
Israel's annexing the major settlements on the West Bank and creating new
borders for Israel. In doing so, Israel would also create the borders of a
Palestinian state.

The talk of such a clean break has simmered down a bit, but still remains an
option for the Barak government, administration officials indicated.

For their part, the Palestinians set Nov. 15 as a date for unilaterally
declaring a state. Although they, too, have backed off slightly, the possibility
of such a declaration in the near future remains an option.

The senior administration official said the president would continue to try to
keep contacts going between both sides on the outstanding major issues blocking
a peace accord, but added that such a process -- downgraded in White House
terminology in recent days from a "peace process" to a "political process" --
"could take years, months, weeks."

The administration had no plans to bring Mr. Barak and Mr. Arafat together for a
meeting with Mr. Clinton after Thanksgiving, as had been suggested, the official
said.

For his part, Mr. Barak arrived here with fairly low expectations, Israeli
officials said. First, he and his senior aides believe they may be facing
something akin to a permanent limited war against the Palestinians. The purpose
of the assassination of the Fatah leader, they said, was to send a message to
the Palestinians that if they wanted a struggle, then the Israelis knew how to
deal with it.

Second, Mr. Arafat appeared to be challenging the idea that the United States
should lead the peace effort and wanted to broaden the diplomacy to include the
United Nations and the European Union. That was unacceptable to Israel, the
officials said.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ehud Barak at Andrews Air Force Base yesterday. (Associated
Press)


                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             738 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 20, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

1,700 Arrested in War School Protest

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators staged a die-in yesterday at Fort Benning, Ga., to
protest the School of the Americas. Martin Sheen, the actor, was among the 1,700
people arrested, an official said. The protesters say the school, a center for
Latin American soldiers, trains them to abuse human rights. (Associated Press)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             739 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 27, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

COUNTING THE VOTE: THE STRATEGIES;
New Battle Lines Drawn After Florida Certification

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26


Republicans said tonight that Florida's certification of Gov. George W. Bush as
the victor there delivered them a vital political and legal argument: that no
matter how slim the margin, he is the official winner in Florida and, thus, has
a rightful claim on the White House.

It also gave Republicans a fresh rationale to begin calling upon Vice President
Al Gore to withdraw.

But even as Mr. Bush announced in stern and perhaps brazen posture that he was
forging ahead in assembling a new administration, Democrats were hardly
dispirited. If anything, they seemed surprisingly emboldened.

Many prominent figures in the party, some of whom had questioned how long Mr.
Gore should persist, said they were now willing to fiercely defend Mr. Gore
because their partisan indignation was fired by statements by Representative Tom
DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip, and others, and by the scenes of protesting
Republicans in Florida.

Democrats also said they were furious at the Florida secretary of state,
Katherine Harris, a Republican, for refusing to grant Palm Beach County an
extension to finish counting the votes there tonight. And, they said, the United
States Supreme Court, in deciding to take up the matter on Friday, has given
them at least another week of breathing room.

Moreover, several Democrats made the case that there would be no harm to their
own political standing in rallying behind Mr. Gore because polls still show that
the American public is not clamoring to end the standoff.

"There's nothing that unites the Democrats more than Tom DeLay and a mob," said
Tony Podesta, a Democratic strategist. "So in a funny sort of way, the Bush
effort has aided immeasurably in making the Democrats feel like the process
they've gone through in the last week is hardly fair."

Even so, Democrats acknowledged that the certification -- and Mr. Bush's claim
to be the president-elect -- would make it more difficult for them to keep the
party unified behind Mr. Gore. Campaign officials said that was why earlier
today they, and Mr. Gore, called executives at the television networks and at
large newspapers and newsmagazines to implore them not to portray Mr. Bush as
the 43rd president.

"We're reaching out to everyone we can think of," a senior Gore official said.

In another move to throw doubt on the public perception encouraged by Mr. Bush
that he is the victor -- and to counter television images from Austin, Tex., of
Bush supporters rejoicing in the streets and later of Mr. Bush himself -- the
Gore campaign dispatched Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Mr. Gore's running mate,
before the cameras tonight to make the case that any celebration is premature.

Republicans, for their part, said they recognized that the certification would
not carry the political weight they hoped it would. They said they were also
aware that because of the legal battles pending, they were seeking to put Mr.
Gore on the defensive while taking care not to appear too presumptuous in
reacting to the certification with balloons and ballyhoo.

"Spiking the football in the end zone is not the right response here," said Ed
Gillespie, an adviser to the Bush campaign.

Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, said, "Because people's passions
are higher now than at any time during the election, it's a tough road to
navigate without the vice president first saying, 'It's time for us to move
forward.' "

Asked if Republicans miscalculated by stirring passions among Democrats, Mr.
Brownback said: "There's been over-partisanship all around. Everybody's playing
with fire on this because of its impact on people's faith in the system."

Nevertheless, Republicans said they would seize on the action to build their
case that Mr. Bush should be president. Republicans inside and outside the Bush
organization said they hoped the certification would be the first of several
developments over the next week that would galvanize a public growing uneasy
that there is no president-elect.

Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, said of Mr. Gore
after the certification tonight: "If he doesn't withdraw, it will be a public
relations catastrophe for him. Quite frankly, all he can do now is create
continued controversy." He added, "The public has been patient until they see
something that will settle the matter. I think they will see this as what
settles it."

Still, Bush campaign advisers sounded more cautious than jubilant tonight.

A Republican strategist with close ties to the Bush campaign explained the
thinking that the public will soon tire of the stalemate and want Mr. Gore to
give up. "The notion that this can drag on until Dec. 18 when the electors are
seated is politically naive on Gore's part," he said. "People are going to lose
patience rapidly."

But senior Gore officials said the vice president did not believe the public was
weary, at least not yet, and made clear that there is no backing down.

"The entire operation is now in complete battle mode," one official said. "We
will stand down only if all is obviously lost."

Advisers to the Gore camp said tonight that they were considering making the
case that a large portion of the nearly 10,000 votes that were not counted in
Miami-Dade County were of minority voters.

Seeking, clearly, to build political pressure, the Rev. Jesse Jackson said civil
rights groups would hold prayer vigils at the Florida Supreme Court on Tuesday
and at the United States Supreme Court on Friday, protesting what he said were
violations of the Voting Rights Act in denying the vote to some
African-Americans, Jews and naturalized citizens.

"Most of the discussion is around chad-ism, but racism is a huge problem," Mr.
Jackson said in a telephone interview after the certification, which he called
"illegitimate."

Republicans, meanwhile, also made the case that the certification gave Mr. Bush
a stamp of legitimacy. "It gives Governor Bush an aura of having fairly won
Florida," Mr. Brownback said.

While Republicans have been in lockstep behind Mr. Bush all along, it was
striking today how Democrats rallied behind Mr. Gore, who has been telephoning
dozens of party stalwarts in recent days to personally make his case -- and to
lay out his rationale for pressing ahead.

Even Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, who had openly questioned
how long Mr. Gore should go on, appeared on television today to staunchly defend
him.

On Monday, the two Democratic leaders in Congress, Senator Tom Daschle of South
Dakota and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, plan to travel to
Florida to lend their support. Some Democrats have suggested that Mr. Gephardt
and Mr. Daschle's hopes of recapturing the House and Senate in 2002 would be
better if an embattled Mr. Bush sits in the White House.

But in interviews today, both men seemed happily supportive of their
presidential nominee.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             740 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 4, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Saudi Heir Urges Reform, and Turn From U.S.

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1688 words

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia


After a life spent in the shadows of a monarchy known for its caution and
calculation, Crown Prince Abdullah, the de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia, has
emerged as a voice sharply critical of American policy in the Middle East and an
advocate of domestic reform.

At an age when many men would settle for a peaceful retirement, the 77-year-old
heir to the throne has gathered up the reins of power during the protracted
illness of his half-brother, King Fahd, and pointed his nation toward an
unprecedented engagement with the outside world.

This venture into uncharted territory comes at a particularly unsettled time
both in the region and at home, where economic troubles have made the ruling
family especially vulnerable to popular complaints about its spending habits and
its monopoly on decision-making.

Relations with the United States, the cornerstone of foreign policy for decades,
are acutely strained by Saudi anger over the Israeli response to the Palestinian
uprising of the last two months. Internally, the income gap is widening between
the tiny slice of wealthy Saudis and the rest of the fast-growing population of
22 million. Only 5 percent of women work and unemployment for men is estimated
at up to 35 percent.

The success of Crown Prince Abdullah's ambitious projects to open up his country
may depend, ultimately, on his own longevity and the enthusiasm of the powerful
princes behind him. Those princes, too, are advanced in age. Who among their
many sons and nephews might succeed them on the Saudi throne is another
unanswered question hovering over the world's biggest producer of oil. The
ruling clique is already the oldest set of leaders that modern Saudi Arabia has
known since King Abdel Aziz, its founder, took the throne at age 53. King Fahd
was 59 when he came to power.

Still, many Saudis said the emphasis is on where the kingdom is going and not on
who is navigating the road ahead. "We wake up each morning complaining about
management, not legitimacy," said one young prince. "We never debate direction.
We debate its focus, speed, style, emphasis, colors."

An aloof nation, Saudi Arabia has long used its oil wealth to purchase mountains
of foreign consumer goods and weapons, while trying to limit exposure to foreign
ideas about human rights, trade and governance. At the same time, it sought to
preserve a longstanding political alliance with the United States without
agitating a society that, outside the flashy modernity of the big cities,
remains suspicious of any intrusion by non-Muslims.

In the four years since King Fahd suffered a stroke and relinquished day-to-day
management to Abdullah, barricades have slowly begun to crumble. The Saudi
leadership, accustomed to rule through censorship and subsidies, may not have
chosen to see them fall. But satellite television, the Internet, globalization
and a stagnant job market -- all the accumulating shocks that threaten the
insularity of rigid regimes -- have caught up with the leadership.

"We cannot sit by ourselves and say we don't need others," said Prince Turki bin
Muhammad, the undersecretary for political affairs in the Saudi Foreign Ministry
and a nephew of the crown prince. "We are part of the international community.
We have to live and work with it."

Saudi leaders have talked for years of creating more jobs for young people,
weaning private business from government contracts and diversifying the economy.
An unexpected plunge in oil prices in 1998 -- they fell to about one-third of
their present levels -- gave the promises new impetus. But it took a commitment
from Crown Prince Abdullah, Saudi officials said, to drive the government to cut
the budget and seek foreign investment in job-intensive projects. Although oil
prices have rebounded, they added, his interest in reform has not flagged. "We
are in the process of inventing ourselves," said one aide to an influential
Saudi prince. "All the indications are that we are opening. But what are the
consequences? We will have to deal with it as it comes."

The opening, however, has coincided with a burst of anti-American feeling that
has intensified with the Palestinian-Israeli violence. Many Saudis accuse the
United States of defending Israel's use of military force. Crown Prince
Abdullah, say diplomats who have spoken with him, shares that anger.

If the situation is not defused and peace negotiations are not restarted, the
crown prince has said, instability could spread. He has called for the United
States to show more even-handedness and last month threatened "decisive action"
if Israel did not show more restraint.

"The reputation of the United States in the Arab region has dropped to zero,"
said Prince Talal bin Abdel Aziz, a brother of the crown prince. That is not
only a problem for the United States, he added, because "too biased a stand
makes an awkward situation for America's friends."

Asked how far Saudi Arabia might go in expressing dissatisfaction, Prince Talal
demurred. "It's a delicate situation and not to be discussed now," he said.

Friendship with the United States, the Saudis' biggest trading partner and arms
supplier, has been a touchstone of their policy. The leadership gave its backing
in the last 10 years to the American-sponsored peace talks and acted as a
go-between for Syria and United States.

Now, the new animosity toward the United States has set off a debate about the
degree of engagement the Saudis want with the West in general and America in
particular. "If the perception of the United States doesn't change, it will
weaken the arguments of those who say we should totally open up and plug in with
the world," said one influential prince. "People will say it's too risky."

Others said they feared that the hostility could spill over into anti-Western
violence in the kingdom, where terrorist bombings in 1995 and 1996 killed 24
American service personnel. In some cities, following Friday Prayers, there have
already been unauthorized demonstrations against Israel and the United States,
rare in a nation as tightly monitored as Saudi Arabia. If the government feels
compelled to crack down on such protests, the willingness to continue with
potentially controversial reforms could evaporate, said one Saudi official.

This month, in two separate incidents, booby-trapped bombs exploded under the
cars of British expatriates working in Riyadh. A man killed in the first
explosion and two men injured in the second worked in the same hospital. Saudi
investigators say they do not know if the attacks were linked or politically
motivated.

Crown Prince Abdullah, at recent Arab and Islamic summit meetings, has avoided
war-mongering but called directly for the United States to reprimand Israel. He
has pledged Saudi money to the Palestinians and warned -- with the United States
clearly in mind -- that Saudi Arabia would break relations with any country that
moved its embassy in Israel to the disputed city of Jerusalem.

Strong statements may defuse public anger here, but the risks remain that the
Saudi leaders could come to be seen as apologists for America. "An image of
impotence is bad for rulers," said a European diplomat. "But the Saudis don't
see themselves as a front-line state. They didn't fight a war with Israel. I
think they want their government to cut the right figure and Abdullah has
satisfied that desire."

Power in Saudi Arabia does not flow from one man, as in many neighboring
countries. Under King Fahd and now under Abdullah, decisions are made in
conjunction with senior princes who have held ministerial positions for decades,
said diplomats and Saudi officials.

But the crown prince, they added, has put his stamp on both foreign and domestic
policy. Regarded as a man of relatively simple tastes, he has occasionally shown
up at shopping malls to eat fast food and chat with ordinary Saudis.

"The crown prince is a master politician in a way that Saudi Arabia hasn't had
for a while in terms of reading his own public," said another Western diplomat.
"I don't think he's in any way anti-American, but he is more openly critical
than Fahd would have been."

The crown prince had been considered an unlikely innovator, say many
knowledgeable Saudis. Little-traveled until recently, he had closer ties to the
conservative tribal chiefs than to Western-trained technocrats and the business
elite. He has been commander of the National Guard, a parallel military force to
the Army and a bastion of tribal influence, since 1963.

But since acquiring political power, he has pushed to open the country to
foreign investors and even tourists. Foreign oil companies, barred from the
energy sector for decades, have been invited to bid on developing Saudi gas
resources.

The country has applied for membership in the World Trade Organization, which
would require reforms of the legal system and a tradition of protectionism. Long
criticized by outside governments and organizations over its treatment of women
and non-Muslims, it also signed a number of human rights conventions and
treaties that oblige it to follow international norms.

Internally, the crown prince has installed young, Western-educated princes on
new government councils overseeing key economic areas, while cutting some costly
privileges for the 4,000 princes and princesses, including free telephone
service and vacation allowances.

He also created what is called Family Council this year to manage the affairs of
the royal family and appease public opinion by divorcing the family's finances
from the government's. Eventually, the council may also deal with a question of
succession. For now, according to several princes, family members are more
worried about their public image.

"It's annoying to us," said Prince Talal, a council member, referring to the
ruling family's reputation for profligacy. "It's a big family and they have been
used to certain things from the days of King Abdel Aziz. If you disconnect these
things abruptly, we will have a family problem and we want to avoid family
problems, while at the same time satisfying our people."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Crown Prince Abdullah, left, Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, with
the emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, in Qatar last month.
Abdullah, 77, has emerged as a force for change in his conservative country.
(Associated Press)(pg. A12)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             741 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 2000, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

F.B.I. Agents Rally Against Possible Clemency

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15


About 500 active and retired F.B.I. agents and employees marched to the White
House today in a highly unusual protest, angered that President Clinton might
commute the life sentence of an American Indian activist convicted of killing
two F.B.I. agents 25 years ago.

Many agents wore their F.B.I. badges pinned to their coats as they walked
two-by-two in a long, silent protest around the Ellipse, the park immediately
south of the White House, to the presidential mansion. A banner held by agents
at the front of the line said, "Never Forget."

For a civilian agency steeped in paramilitary tradition, the protest was a
serious break from discipline, reflecting the deep resentment many of agents
feel toward Mr. Clinton over the case of Leonard Peltier.

Mr. Clinton has never been widely popular among agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, in part because of what agents believe is his scarcely concealed
disdain for F.B.I. Director Louis J. Freeh.

The march was not officially sanctioned, but many senior officials, including
Mr. Freeh, quietly expressed approval even as they stayed away from the protest.
The F.B.I. marchers took vacation leave to join in the demonstration, said Susan
Lloyd, an agent who is a spokeswoman for the F.B.I.'s Washington field office.

Mr. Clinton, who wields the sole discretion on clemency actions, has not said
whether he will commute Mr. Peltier's sentence. But he told a radio interviewer
in November that he would consider Mr. Peltier's request along with other
clemency applications.

Mr. Freeh wrote to Mr. Clinton last week expressing his "abhorrence" over the
possibility that Mr. Peltier, who is 56, might be freed. Today, Mr. Freeh spoke
at a memorial service before the march that was held for the two murdered
agents, Ronald A. Williams and Jack R. Coler.

Mr. Peltier's supporters expressed indignation that F.B.I. employees would try
to influence a clemency decision.

Jennifer K. Harbury, a lawyer for Mr. Peltier, said, "I think it's inappropriate
and very disturbing for members of our government's armed police forces to march
through the streets of Washington, D.C., to block the correction of the
violation of rights that they inflicted not only on Mr. Peltier but on Native
Americans throughout the Pine Ridge reservation."

At the time of the shootings, the two agents were searching for a robbery
suspect on the Pine Ridge reservation in South Dakota. The agents, in separate
cars, came under fire from assailants several hundred yards away and were
wounded.

The agents were later killed by a gunman who stood over the men and fired into
their heads. The government said at Mr. Peltier's trial that only he had a
weapon of the type that investigators believed was used in the killings.

Mr. Peltier has unsuccessfully appealed his conviction and has said that he did
not shoot the agents. In recent years, an effort to free him has gained
momentum. Last Sunday, supporters held a march near the United Nations in New
York that attracted several thousand people.

Supporters of several controversial clemency applicants regard Mr. Clinton's
final days in office as their last chance to obtain a presidential grant of
leniency.

The peaceful protest today prompted anti-F.B.I. demonstrators to gather in small
numbers near the march, holding signs criticizing the F.B.I. over several
controversial operations, like the tear gas assault on the Branch Davidian
compound near Waco, Tex., in 1993.

Another anti-F.B.I. demonstrator held a sign that said "Free Peltier, Jail
Horiuchi," referring to Lon Horiuchi, a member of the bureau's hostage rescue
team who shot and killed the wife of a white separatist during a stand-off at
remote cabin at Ruby Ridge, Idaho, in 1992.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eddie Woods, an F.B.I. agent, held a picture of Agent Jack R.
Coler in a march to the White House yesterday. Coler and Agent Ronald A.
Williams, pictured right, were killed in 1975. Demonstrators urged the president
not to grant clemency to the man convicted of the killings. (Ting-Li Wang/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                             742 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                 irishmirror.ie

                     November 25, 2014 Tuesday 10:19 AM GMT

Watch: Moment Ferguson civilian gets his phone stolen while live streaming;
Live streamer Bassem Masri has his phone stolen while streaming events in
Ferguson to 90,000 viewers

BYLINE: By Richard Beech

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 185 words


Video POV of thief as he steals and runs with riot vlogger Bassem Masri's iPhone
(still recording)

This is the moment a Ferguson civilian got his phone stolen while live streaming
footage of riots in the St Louis area of Ferguson.

Rioting was sparked by the decision not to bring charges over the killing of
black teenager Michael Brown by white police officer Darren Wilson.

Throughout last night cars were set alight, civilians were tear gassed by police
and civilians in cities across the US marched in support of the Michael Brown as
part of the Black Lives Matter movement.

Shocking images have emerged from Ferguson showing women and children in tears
after being pepper sprayed by police, but police have confirmed that they did
not use any firearms on protesters throughout the night.

Vlogger and live streamer Baseem Masri was streaming images of the events to
90,000 from his mobile phone when it was stolen, though he confirmed that he was
safe via Twitter.

Bassem Masri 2In pictures: The most powerful images from the Ferguson riots

Ferguson riots and US protests following Michael Brown shooting cop cleared

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBMGNIRIS


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             743 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           September 7, 2013 Saturday

1984 Sikh riots: US court summons Sonia Gandhi

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: New York


New York, Sept.. 7 -- On a complaint by a Sikh group, a US federal court has
issued summons against Indian ruling Congress party president Sonia Gandhi for
shielding party officials allegedly involved in inciting attacks on Sikhs in
November 1984, Indian media quoting an attorney said on Wednesday.

In a class action suit filed before the district court of Eastern District of
New York, "Sikhs For Justice" (SFJ), a US-based human rights group, and other
victims of the November 1984 anti-Sikh violence have sought compensatory and
punitive damages against Gandhi.

According to SFJ attorney Gurpatwant S Pannun, under federal rules, it has 120
days to serve the summons and complaint on Gandhi who is currently visiting the
US for medical check-up.

The suit under Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA) and Torture Victim Protection Act
(TVPA) accuses Gandhi of shielding and protecting Kamal Nath, Sajjan Kumar,
Jagdish Tytler and other Congress party leaders from being prosecuted for their
alleged role in the 1984 violence.

The 27-page complaint against Gandhi alleges that between November 1 and 4, 1984
about 30,000 members of the Sikh community "were intentionally tortured, raped
and murdered by groups that were incited, organized, controlled and armed" by
the ruling Congress party

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             744 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            November 22, 2013 Friday

Pakistan: US House resolution expresses concern over violence against Indian
minorities; backs visa denial to Modi

LENGTH: 559 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 -- A resolution introduced in the U.S. House of
Representatives calls upon the United States to include the issue of religious
freedom in India in its strategic dialogue with the South Asian country and
backed continued denial of American visa to Gujarat chief minister Narendera
Modi on grounds of violations of religious freedom. The resolution shares the
opinion of the U.S Department of State and the United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) that the Gujarat government has not
adequately pursued justice for the victims of the 2002 violence and remains
concerned by reports from journalists and human rights groups about the
complicity of local officials in the 2002 violence.

Modi is widely believed to have backed violence against Muslims in Gujarat in
2002. He was denied a U.S. visa in 2005. Modi is BJP's candidate for Indian
prime ministership in the upcoming general election. The resolution in the US
House was moved by Democratic Congressman Keith Ellison and Republican Joe
Pitts. The sponsors of the resolution "commend the United States Government for
exercising its authority in 2005 under the International Religious Freedom Act
of 1998 to deny a United States visa to Narendra Modi on the grounds of
religious freedom violations, and encourages it to review the applications of
any individuals implicated in religious freedom violations under the same
standard." Supported by a bipartisan group of legislators, the resolution was
assigned to a congressional committee, which will consider it before possibly
sending it on to the House or Senate as a whole. The sponsors of the resolution
express concern over incidents of violence against minorities and call for
religious freedom and related human rights to be included in the United States
India Strategic Dialogue, and for these issues to be raised directly with
federal and state Indian Government officials. The resolution commends the role
of India's National Human Rights Commission and the Indian Supreme Court, which
has led to some convictions in Gujarat riot cases and the arrest of a few
high-level leaders in the Gujarati administration. Among other things, the
resolution asks India to increase training on human rights and religious freedom
standards and practices for police and the judiciary, particularly in states
with a history or likelihood of communal violence. More importantly, it calls on
Gujarat and other Indian states with anti-conversion laws to repeal such
legislation and ensure freedom to practice, propagate, and profess ones religion
as enshrined in the Indian constitution; The lawmakers backing the resolution
also urge New Delhi to empower the National Commission on Minorities with
enforcement mechanisms, such as the ability to conduct trials and hear appeals.
The resolution cites acts of violence against Muslims, Christians and other
minorities and recognizes the "suffering of all Indian citizens who have been
victims of religious violence, including the victims of all faiths from the 1992
Babri Mosque riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots, the 2008 Odisha riots, and violence
that is ongoing today.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             745 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            October 2, 2014 Thursday

Remaking India-US

LENGTH: 458  words


With his just concluded visit to Washington marked by expansive public diplomacy
and substantive talks with US President Barack Obama, Prime Minister Narendra
Modi has begun to put an imprint of his own on India's engagement with the US.
Although Modi surprised the nation and the world with his flair for diplomacy,
there was no doubt that the US posed a very special challenge for him. For
nearly a decade, Washington publicly affirmed that Modi was not welcome in
America by citing his role in the 2002 Gujarat riots. The US decision to invite
him to the White House by setting aside its presumed human rights concerns and
extend a very warm welcome constituted more than a personal vindication for
Modi. They reinforced his political belief, not widely shared in his own party
or the national security establishment, that renewing the momentum in India's
relations with the US is one of the highest priorities for India's foreign
policy.

At the White House, Modi said that his talks with Obama have reinforced his
conviction that "India and the United States are natural global partners based
on our shared values, interests, and strengths." While the rhetoric might sound
trite, the fact is that no political formation in the country has been willing
to own the relationship with the US that has steadily expanded since the end of
the Cold War. The BJP, which sought a transformation of ties with the US under
Atal Bihari Vajpayee, opposed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's attempts to
advance the partnership with Washington. The Congress leadership, in turn, was
never comfortable with the prospect of India drawing close to the US and held
Singh back.

Although the agenda for India-US relations was set in the UPA years, Modi is
poised to make a big difference. As the first leader in 30 years with a majority
in the Lok Sabha, Modi's unabashed enthusiasm for America marks a very different
phase in Delhi's post-Cold War engagement with Washington that was defined by
apprehension and ambivalence in recent decades. Besides a strong and open
commitment to the relationship, Modi brings a rare pragmatism in dealing with
the many differences with the US on trade, climate change and civil nuclear
liability. Modi's eager pursuit of American investment in India is matched by
his recognition of the unprecedented possibilities for geopolitical cooperation
with the US in the subcontinent, East Asia, the Middle East and the Indian
Ocean. At the same time, Modi appears deeply conscious of India's own strengths
and its inherent capacity to build an equitable relationship with Washington.
The self-assurance that Modi has begun to inject into Delhi's worldview promises
to herald a future for India-US relations that is very different from the past.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             746 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

CHINA Exports reach record high UK Virgin Atlantic bounces back GERMANY Top
bank's net profit tumbles GHANA Inflation drops to 19-year low

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 312 words


China's exports hit a record high in July as shipments to Europe and the US
proved surprisingly buoyant, allaying concerns that debt problems abroad may
hold back the world's second-biggest economy. Data released by the General
Administration of Customs yesterday showed that July exports rose 20.4 percent
from a year ago, the strongest gain since April and surpassing economists'
median forecast for a 17.4 percent increase. - Reuters

British airline Virgin Atlantic said yesterday that market conditions had become
tougher in recent months due to higher fuel prices and weakening consumer
confidence, with this week's London riots and US market turmoil unlikely to help
sentiment. The airline yesterday reported a pretax profit of Â£18.5 million
(R219.4m) in the year to March, compared with a loss of Â£132m in the same
period a year ago. It said that revenue grew 13 percent to Â£2.7 billion. -
Reuters

The second-biggest German bank, Commerzbank, said yesterday that its
second-quarter net profit plunged by 93 percent from the same period a year
earlier to e24 million (R248.5m). The bank noted that it had revalued its
holdings of Greek debt, resulting in a depreciation of e760m. It maintained its
full-year outlook of an operating profit "well above the figure achieved in
2010", which was e1.386 billion. Operating profit came to just e55m for the
second quarter of 2011, data showed. - Sapa-AP

Ghana's annual inflation rate fell to its lowest since 1992 in July, potentially
paving the way for new cuts in interest rates, data from Ghana's statistical
office showed yesterday. Consumer price inflation dipped to 8.39 percent from
8.59 percent in June, the fifth consecutive monthly drop. "We continue to see
room for the Bank of Ghana to lower their reference rate at least another 50
basis points later this year," said Stephen Bailey-Smith, a bank analyst. -
Reuters

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             748 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                             August 15, 2011 Monday
                                   E1 Edition

Lotto could help us enjoy senior moments;
Viva Cosatu! And, um, may we have some Lotto cash too, please?

BYLINE:  james clarke

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 584 words


Dear Lotto Board, I am putting fingers to keyboard as chairman of the ADSL
(African Democratic Seniors League) because we note that you recently granted
Cosatu officials R1 million to celebrate their organisation's birthday.

And before that you contributed millions to the Youth League to play "spin the
bottle" and kiss each other.

We have no quarrel with any of this. After all, lottery money is meant to ease
life's pressures for the sick, for the blind, for the hungry and homeless and,
of course, for those who work so conscientiously towards keeping South Africa
economically viable.

We have witnessed the distressing sight of municipal workers so exhausted from
ensuring our country's economic health that they are asleep in the roadside
grass by eleven in the morning.

And if it wasn't for Cosatu calling for more money and less work, they'd be
forced to work all day - well, at least until 3.30pm when government workers at
all levels plod their weary way to the restroom to spruce up for their 4pm
departure.

No, they all deserved those millions from charity funds just as hungry children
deserve soup and the homeless deserve roofs over their heads.

Viva Cosatu! Viva the workers!

As chairman of the ADSL I respectfully ask that we be listed as a beneficiary of
the Lotto funds for the purpose of celebrating our sixth birthday next month.

R500 000 would be perfectly adequate in our case.

All four of us who make up the League were movers and shakers in our time.
Nowadays, perforce, we are just shakers and so can no longer eat peas with a
fork or use pepper without sneezing over everybody. But our faculties are
unimpaired.

We meet for lunch on a monthly basis when we make decisions of national and even
international importance.

Apart from discussing immediate issues such as what wine to have with our lunch
and whether to have snails or Portuguese sardines as starters, we also arrive at
some important solutions regarding topical issues such as inner city riots, the
US credit debacle and Western Province's recent poor showing.

Yet we go unrewarded. So much so that one of our members - a well-known academic
whose tomes on South African history are so weighty they are used countrywide to
flatten ganglions - could not afford the seafood platter at our last lunch.

Yet at that lunch we decided that the US should stop dropping bombs in the
Middle East. The Arabs may be tiring of their presidents but that is their
business.

After all, are we not getting pretty fed up with our own President? But we don't
want B52s dropping bombs on our heads, thank you very much.

We also decided that the corruption recently hinted at within London's
Metropolitan Police should be rooted out and we stood and saluted our own
policemen whom we unanimously agreed were the best police money can buy.

We discussed at length what the ANC should do about Julius Malema, which led to
a spirited and rather noisy debate and us being asked to leave.

On broader issues we have made far-reaching recommendations regarding the World
Bank, the International Monetary Fund, Fifa, Saru and Unesco.

We only ask that you come to a speedy decision as our members are likely to pop
off.

We have supported the Lotto for years but apart from sharing a R35 win in 2001
we have not been lucky. Nevertheless our support continues unabated.

We earnestly request that you consider granting us R500 000 so that we can
celebrate our birthday - September 1 - and perhaps keep a little aside for Irish
coffees after future lunches.

Yours faithfully

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2011 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             749 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                            December 31, 2007 Monday
                                   e2 Edition

New president cracks down on media amid turmoil of his re-election

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 559 words


NAIROBI: Kenya was thrown into turmoil yesterday as angry opposition supporters
battled against police in major cities, forcing President Mwai Kibaki to order a
media shutdown hours after being sworn in for a second term.

Amid opposition claims that the presidential election was rigged, a European
Union observers' report questioned the credibility of the vote and former
colonial ruler Britain expressed "real concerns" about reported irregularities.

Kibaki called for a national healing process at his swearing in hours after
results gave him victory by just more than 200 000 votes, reversing the
opposition's lead in pre-election polls and early vote counts.

"I urge all of us to set aside the passions that were excited by the election
process, and that we work together as one people with the single purpose of
building a strong, united, prosperous and equitable country," Kibaki said.

But the conciliatory tone of the 76-year-old's victory speech fell on deaf ears
as angry supporters of Raila Odinga's opposition Orange Democratic Movement
began rioting.

Police said they had shot and killed at least five protesters and were
struggling to contain the riots.

The US State Department congratulated Kibaki on his re-election and called on
all sides to accept the results, despite the fraud allegations.

"Again we would call on the people of Kenya to accept the results of the
election and to move forward with the democratic process," spokesman Rob
McInturff said.

Odinga's party urged supporters of the defeated candidate to reject Kibaki's
re-election and to gather in central Nairobi today to welcome the "people's
president" instead.

Earlier, election commission chairman Samuel Kivuitu had read the results live
on television.

The final tally gave Kibaki 4 584 721 votes, ahead of Odinga with 4 352 993.

"This means Kibaki is the winner. The commission therefore declares President
Mwai Kibaki as the winner," Kivuitu said.

Soon afterwards, plumes of black smoke billowed into the Nairobi sky above the
sprawling Kibera slum as riot police attempted to contain mobs of angry
protesters.

"The people of Kenya are not ready to accept a rigged election," Odinga said
yesterday, stoking fears of widespread unrest across the country.

Kibaki responded to the unrest by suspending all live radio and television news
broadcasts.

"I am directed by the Minister for Internal Security, John Michuki, that, in the
interest of public safety and tranquillity, I order the immediate suspension of
live broadcast until further notice," Ministry of Information Permanent
Secretary Bitange Ndemo said in a statement.

The European Union's team of election observers in Kenya said the electoral
commission had failed to ensure the credibility of the presidential vote.

"We regret that it has not been possible to address irregularities about which
both the EU EOM (European Union Electoral Observation Mission) and the ECK
(Electoral Commission of Kenya) have evidence," he added.

Before the results were announced, Odinga held his own press briefing, in which
he made a final plea for Kibaki to concede defeat and repeated accusations of
state-engineered fraud.

"The figure of the President Kibaki administration has been inflated by as much
as 300 000" votes, Odinga charged.

It was not clear if 62-year-old Odinga would seek to mount a legal challenge
against the results. - Sapa-AFP

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             750 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                             July 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                   E2 Edition

The real reason behind Detroit's fall;
Dysfunctional race relations are cause of the decline of what was the US's
fourth largest city, writes Marilyn Salenger

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 656 words


An almost palpable sadness has swept across the US at the news that the city of
Detroit has filed for bankruptcy.

While the possibility of this had been discussed, the reality of what was once
the fourth-largest city in the US sinking to such depths is disheartening, a
moment people will remember for years to come. To understand that the decline
and bankruptcy represent so much more than dollars and cents requires a step
back to a time that many would prefer to forget.

In the late 1960s, racial tension engulfed parts of the US, at the cost of lost
lives and abject destruction. Such was the case in Detroit during the summer of
1967, when one of the worst race riots the US had seen took place. Mayor Coleman
Young, Detroit's first black mayor, wrote, "The heaviest casualty, however, was
the city."

It was the beginning of the ending we are now seeing and it was the beginning of
what became a much more subtle social movement.

The term "white flight" has become less common in recent years because its huge
waves appeared to have stopped as tension eased. Younger generations may not
even know the meaning of the term. But those who lived during that era remember
the phrase well.

It harks to the tumultuous period of riots, fights for civil rights and
not-so-civil disobedience, when white people living in racially diverse
communities began to sell or walk away from their homes. Their moves were often
born out of fear and sometimes outright racial prejudice as they watched their
cities fall apart. As white people left their neighbourhoods, minorities moved
in. The words I remember hearing as a young woman to describe this societal
phenomenon were, "The neighbourhood has changed". The implication was that the
area had gone from white to black.

While the suburbs began to draw people out of US cities in the 1950s, Detroit's
neighbourhoods and their demographics changed drastically and quickly after the
1967 riots.

White residents fled by the thousands, affecting municipal infrastructures, tax
bases and jobs. It set the stage for similar urban race-related exoduses around
the US.

My home town of Gary, Indiana, was another thriving, though smaller, urban area
before the late 1960s. Its eclectic mix of race and religion worked as a
cohesive unit - until it didn't any longer. After the Detroit riots and despite
electing the second black mayor of a major urban city in 1967, nothing seemed to
be able to stem the tide of white families moving out of the area.

White flight threw Gary and its neighbouring towns into an unstoppable tailspin.
Today it stands as a city destroyed, left in large part to fall into ruin
without the capacity to successfully rebuild.

White flight took hold and left a lasting imprint. The strength and importance
of diversely populated business and housing centres declined. The racial divide
has created too many broken-down ghost towns, devoid of the quality of life they
once had. Some held on for a while but could not withstand the devastating
economic conditions of recent years.

It's not just the economic issues of Detroit's bankruptcy that need to serve as
a lesson but also the impact of dysfunctional race relations. The real challenge
now for Detroit is to view its fallen stature as a great opportunity to rebuild
communities by creating new and positive examples of recovery.

Detroit has an opportunity to revisit the racial problems of the past and to
build a strong foundation of fiscal responsibility as well as business and civic
partnerships that cross the racial boundaries that have become one of the city's
most destructive elements. That would be the true victory. It won't be easy to
undo 46-plus years of decline, anger, fear and prejudice. But cities have to
learn to embrace and thrive under racial diversity in order to survive.

l Salenger is the president of Strategic Communications Services and a former
correspondent and news anchor for several CBS affiliated stations.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                             752 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         The Middle East Reporter (MER)

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

SYRIA-UNREST

LENGTH: 1175  words


SYRIA-UNREST

--New Casualties in Deraa after Attack on al-Omari Mosque

--Syrian Authorities Accuse 'Armed Gangs' of Involvement in the Violence

--Official Statement Says Muslim Brotherhood Involved in Riots

--US, France and UN Condemn Violence in Syria

--Otari Accuses 'Foreign Groups' of Seeking to Target 'National Bond'

Syrian security forces launched an attack on yesterday against protesters in
Deraa, 100 km south of the Syrian capital Damascus, killing at least 15 people
among them a doctor, the pan-Arab daily ASHARQ AL AWSAT and others reported on
Thursday. Although some eyewitnesses told the daily that dozens were killed and
wounded when the security forces broke into al-Omari Mosque, which became a seat
for protesters a few days ago, the number of casualties differed in Beirut
press. YouTube footage showed what was purported to be the street in front of
the mosque before the attack, with the sound of gunfire audible and a person
inside the mosque grounds yelling: ""Brother don't shoot. This country is big
enough for me and you.""

Syria's official authorities have accused "armed gangs" of involvement in the
attack at the mosque saying that the security forces clashed with militant
groups who attacked a medical team driving in an ambulance before they (gangs)
moved to the al-Omari mosque, ASHARQ AL AWSAT and the leftist daily AS SAFIR
reported.

Protests, inspired by the uprisings that have swept the region, erupted in Deraa
six days ago with calls for political freedom and an end to corruption in the
country of 20 million. A number of demonstrators who have been calling for
political freedoms and an end to corruption were killed during confrontations
with the security forces.

In an statement published by Syrian state-run SANA news agency and carried by
the two dailies, an unnamed (Syrian) official said that "an armed gang attacked
a medical team in an ambulance on Tuesday night that was passing by al-Omari
mosque in Deraa. This led to the death of a doctor and a paramedic in addition
to the driver." An unnamed official source told SANA that "the security forces
that were near the place confronted the assailants and were able to shoot some
of them and arrest others." The source added that one security member was
killed. The source was also cited by SANA as saying that "armed gangs used the
mosque to store weapons and ammunition, as they also used kidnapped children as
human shields." The source emphasized that the Syrian security forces are
pursuing the "armed gangs".


Syria's official TV also broadcast footage of the weapons, ammunition and money
which the authorities claimed were found at the al-Omari Mosque by the security
forces. However, the mosque's Imam, Ahmed al-Sayasna, denied in his statements
to al-Arabiya satellite channel the presence of "armed gangs" inside the mosque.
"There are no armed gangs inside the mosque... the protesters were only calling
peacefully for reforms," the Imam said. He added that Syrian security forces are
scattered throughout Deraa and have emptied the mosque of protesters, ASHARQ AL
AWSAT reported. AS SAFIR also said that international human rights activist and
lawyers had disproved what the Syrian official authorities said about the
existence of "armed gangs".

AS SAFIR said that the statement carried by SANA accused the Muslim Brotherhood
in Syria of being behind what is happening in the county pointing out that the
"the General Supervisor of the Muslim Brotherhood in Syria, Riyad al-Shaqfa,
said two months ago that the Muslim Brotherhood had returned to its military
action in Syria." The SANA statement also accused "foreign groups" of "spreading
lies about the situation in Deraa claiming that massacres are being committed
and this is for the purpose of frightening Syrians and inciting them (to riot)."
The statement also said "more than million SMS messages from Israel were
received by Syrians calling on the people to use the mosques to stir violence."
AS SAFIR added that Syria's President Bashar al-Assad issued a decree in which
he sacked the governor of Deraa, Faisal Ahmed Kalthoum. But a main demand of the
protesters is an end to what they term as repression by the secret police,
headed in Deraa province by a cousin of Assad.

US-France-UN

The United Nations, France and the United States condemned the violence. U.N.
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon called for a ""transparent investigation"" into
the killings and for those responsible to be held accountable. Mark Toner, a
State Department spokesman told reporters "The United States is alarmed by the
violence overnight in Daraa by security forces against civilians," AS SAFIR
said. He added, "We are deeply concerned by the Syrian government's use of
violence, intimidation and arbitrary arrests to hinder the ability of its people
to freely exercise their universal rights. We condemn these actions." ""We call
on the Syrian government to exercise restraint and to refrain from violence
against"" the protesters, Toner said.

In its turn France has called on Syria to halt its "excessive use of force"
against protestors as it also condemned "the violent actions that have left
causalities." The Secretary General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon has also
called for a ""transparent investigation"" into the killings and for those
responsible to be held accountable.

Syrian Officials

Syrian Prime Minister Mohammad Naji al-Otari has said that his government "is
mulling the suitable mechanism to adopt in order to fulfill the protesters'
demands." He also accused during an interview with Syrian al-Dunya TV channel
"foreign groups" which he did not name, of "planning to sever the national bond
which we are proud of in Syria." Otari also referred to what he called "foreign
agendas which are revealing themselves (in Syria) and unfortunately some of them
are coming from neighboring countries," ASHARQ AL AWSAT and AL HAYAT reported.


In his turn, Syrian Vice President Farouk al-Sharaa told a group of reporters
during a meeting on Tuesday that at the beginning of the current incidents in
Syria, Assad sent his representative to pay condolences to the families of the
victims and met with officials in the city (Daraa) for the purpose of listening
to their demands. He added, "The state cannot but fulfill the demands of a
person who says he is a citizen in the state," AL HAYAT reported. Asked by
reporters about Islamic movements in the region, Sharaa said, "Syria is not
against moderate and pan-Arabism Islamic movements, but it is against radical
organizations such as al Qaeda and the Taliban."

In Damascus, authorities released six female protesters on Wednesday who took
part in a silent demonstration last week supporting the release of political
prisoners, lawyers said. Assad has lifted some bans on private enterprise but
ignored calls to end emergency law, curb a pervasive security apparatus, develop
rule of law and freedom of expression, free political prisoners and reveal the
fate of tens of thousands of dissidents who disappeared in the 1980s.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 597


              Copyright 2011 Press Services & Documentation Bureau
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             753 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                            December 07, 2009 Monday
                                   E2 Edition

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words


Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday criticised the Palestinian
rejection of his West Bank settlement freeze, saying it raised questions about
their commitment to peace. He said the freeze showed the world that Israel was
serious about pursuing peace.

Both candidates in Romania's presidential election claimed victory after early
exit polls showed leftist challenger Mircea Geoana with a slim lead over
centre-right incumbent Traian Basescu in a tense run-off.

Thousands of demonstrators marched in Athens and other Greek cities to mark the
first anniversary of the police killing of a teenager, which had unleashed major
riots.

The United States did not know where al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden was and had
lacked reliable information on his whereabouts for years, US Defence Secretary
Robert Gates said.

Two passenger buses collided head-on about 60km from Dhaka in Bangladesh,
leaving 21 people dead and 50 injured.

Chinese authorities have offered rewards of up to 10 000 yuan (over R10 000) to
internet users who report websites that feature pornography. But many web
surfers have been ignoring the call.

Spanish police had arrested nine men suspected of seeking to have a woman killed
after they accused her of adultery, claiming they were following Islamic law,
authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             754 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                            December 07, 2009 Monday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words


Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday criticised the Palestinian
rejection of his West Bank settlement freeze, saying it raised questions about
their commitment to peace. He said the freeze showed the world that Israel was
serious about pursuing peace.

Gunmen have killed four Iraqi policemen at a checkpoint west of Baghdad.
Security officials have warned of a possible rise in insurgent attacks ahead of
next year's election.

Thousands of demonstrators marched in Athens and other Greek cities to mark the
first anniversary of the police killing of a teenager, which had unleashed major
riots.

The United States did not know where al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden was and has
lacked reliable information on his whereabouts for years, US Defence Secretary
Robert Gates said.

Two passenger buses collided head-on about 60km from Dhaka in Bangladesh,
leaving 21 people dead and 50 injured.

Chinese authorities have offered rewards of up to 10 000 yuan (over R10 000) to
internet users who report websites that feature pornography. But many web
surfers have been ignoring the call.

Spanish police have arrested nine men suspected of seeking to have a woman
killed after they accused her of adultery, claiming they were following Islamic
law, authorities said. The men had held the woman in an isolated house.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             755 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     December 11, 2000 Monday FINAL EDITION

Giving police dogs a 'fighting chance': A Winnipeg officer's love for his canine
partner has launched a growing business that outfits dogs with bulletproof
vests. David Stonehouse reports.

BYLINE: David Stonehouse

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A5

LENGTH: 1471 words


The woman stood outside her home, bleeding from cuts inflicted by her
knife-wielding husband. Police officers called to the scene in Vancouver could
see the cuts were not deep. But she was terrified: Her husband, she thought, was
still holed up inside.

Sgt. Gord McGuinness was on duty that day last month with his partner, a German
shepherd named Flash. It would be their job to search the home for the violent
suspect. Sgt. McGuinness might have refused to send the dog in had this call
come just a few weeks earlier, out of fear the dog could be stabbed or killed.
But these days, Flash wears a bulletproof and stab-resistant vest.

"Prior to having a vest, I wouldn't even have entertained putting my dog in the
building," Sgt. McGuinness says. "What would have happened is we would have had
to put officers in the building and put their safety at risk.

"These dogs are not driven by fear or anything else other than their loyalty to
their master and wanting to catch their prey. They'll go through hell or high
water to get that -- and that includes gunfire or whatever," he says.

"But when I put him in that building, I had the added confidence that if the
suspect wants to engage my dog with a weapon -- a knife in this instance -- that
the dog is going to have a fighting chance."

In the end, there would be nothing to fear. The man had fled the apartment only
to be captured nearby without incident.

Police departments throughout Canada are giving their dogs that same "fighting
chance."

With a spate of attacks against the animals in recent years, and increasing
worries about violence, departments are equipping canines with the same kind of
armour that protects officers on the beat.

Winnipeg police officer and dog handler Jim Slater says violent attacks against
dogs are on the rise. "A lot of people are very motivated to elude capture. They
would gladly take on the dog," says Const. Slater.

In the last year in Winnipeg alone, thieves armed with screwdrivers have stabbed
two police dogs. "You hear rumblings from other cities as well," he says, "where
dogs have been hit or bitten or given broken ribs -- things of that nature."

Four years ago, Const. Slater set about to design a dog vest, out of frustration
with the models already on the market. A member of the force's emergency
response team, he wanted something that would allow his German shepherd partner,
Olaf, to come everywhere with him. Working with old Kevlar vests officers were
no longer using, he custom-fit a vest for Olaf and included a harness system
with a hook, so the dog could be hoisted up to the roof of a building or
repelled down from a helicopter.

When word spread of Const. Slater's vest design, other dog handlers wanted the
same outfitting for their own partners. Before he knew it, the demand was great
enough to push Const. Slater into business. As well as being a police officer,
he is now also president of K9 Storm Inc. -- selling vests for police dogs in
five Canadian provinces, 40 U.S. states and three European countries.

Not everyone is in favour of bulletproof vests for dogs. Some handlers say the
vests slow down the dogs, make them less agile and leave them vulnerable to heat
exhaustion in hot weather. The Toronto police force isn't using them and the
Mounties are far from convinced.

Sgt. Jann Martel, the police dog co-coordinator for the RCMP in New Brunswick,
says the vests are still undergoing trials. They are not recommended gear as
yet, he says, and the force is leaving it up to individual handlers across the
country to decide whether to use them. "I don't recommend it at this time --
it's too bulky and it is too hard for the dog to carry. Whether it is searching,
tracking or criminal apprehension of an armed suspect, the dog will need its
full speed and full physical ability. And if that ability is hampered by a vest
of that sort, then we are putting a dog more at risk," Sgt. Martel says.

"In jumping a fence, for example, some of the dogs were tripping when they were
landing on the other side because they couldn't fully extend their front legs.
At this point, it is not the best thing for our dogs, although it fully protects
them from light rifle and stabbing wounds."

But Const. Slater and other advocates of the vests say it is a misconception
they slow down or overheat the dog. While an ill-fitting vest may cause
problems, he says one tailored to fit the dog does not. Despite reservations by
some, an increasing number of authorities are opting to go with the vests.

Just look at Const. Slater's sales: He estimates he has sold about 1,000 vests
this year -- five times the number shipped out in 1999. The vests sell for
$1,500 and up. It isn't just police departments buying them. Some jails in the
U.S. have them to protect their dogs from being stabbed during prison riots, and
the U.S. military is now negotiating for some.

Fisheries and coast guard officers in Canada are adopting vests for their canine
crew as well.

"Dog masters don't like losing their dogs," says John Stuart, a New Brunswick
fisheries officer who is the only dog handler for the Fisheries Department and
coast guard in Eastern Canada. "And if we can think of a way to protect them,
then we will try to do it."

He is in the midst of choosing a vest for his partner, Jake, and says his
colleagues on the West Coast either already have their dogs outfitted or are
working on it.

"It's getting to be more violent now," the fisheries officer says, recalling
that two RCMP dogs in the Maritimes have been slain in recent years.

In Cape Breton last summer, a Belgian shepherd named Bandit was stabbed to death
while trying to subdue a knife-wielding attacker involved in a standoff with
Mounties. In 1998, Edmonton police dog Caesar was shot dead as officers tried to
apprehend a gunman. In 1997, a suicidal man in the woods shot an RCMP dog in
Moncton. Branko was helping in the search for the missing man.

And not far from Mr. Stuart's mind are this year's violent clashes between
fisheries officers and natives illegally fishing for lobster in New Brunswick.

"In my neck of the woods, I'm looking at the native issues and stuff. That's
part of it. I'm not saying natives are going to be the ones doing it or
anything," he says. "But it seems if you are working with a service dog and the
bad element wants to try to get even, then it will be with taking out a dog."

He says criminals are more likely to attack a dog than an officer. "Because they
know if they try that with an officer, that's attempted murder. But with a dog,
there is nothing in the Criminal Code yet for a dog killed in the line of duty,"
he says.

"The only thing we can charge them with is cruelty to animals."

While police have called for stiff punishments for those who attack dogs, there
is no such provision.

The federal government has plans to stiffen penalties for cruelty -- ratcheting
the maximum jail term to five years -- but the legislation to enshrine those
penalties has yet to be passed.

Losing a canine partner is devastating. RCMP Cpl. Pierre Gardner knows that too
well -- it was his dog that was killed three years ago during the search for the
Moncton man.

"After a while, you develop a closeness," he said after Branko's death. "I loved
him and my family did, too."

Sgt. McGuinness loved his last dog, too. Sabre died two days before Christmas in
1989 after a car crash -- their patrol car spun out of control after being cut
off by another car. He believes the padding in the vest may have prevented Sabre
from being so badly injured in the crash.

"My dogs have been the best partners I have ever had," he says. "When you are
out at a traffic stop or you are searching a building or whatever you may be
doing, that dog is 100 per cent dedicated to you and watching every move you
make. I've been with some partners who, while I am out checking a vehicle with a
suspect, are reading a paper in the police car."

He is on a mission to equip every police dog in the province with a vest. It
started out as a fund-raising drive to pay for vests for the 17 dogs in his
department. But the public and corporate response to his plea was so
overwhelming -- about $70,000 has been collected since May -- he figures he will
have enough money to outfit all the canine units in British Columbia.

He talks of an obligation to protect the dogs whenever possible -- especially in
the face of the dog's unwavering loyalty and sense of duty. "They'll go right
into the face of danger. When we test dogs for policing, they have to charge
after a suspect shooting a gun. That's part of the test. They have to be able to
engage a suspect who is smacking them with a stick.

"They don't know fear. They at least need to be afforded the protection we
have."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: Bruce Edwards ; Sgt. Dave Monson of the, Edmonton
police force bonds with new recruit, Nitro. The 14-week-old, dog will begin
formal training in the spring of 2002, and will have, to pass many tests before
becoming a police dog. Right, in this, photo from 1998, an Edmonton police
officer subdues a gunman while, Const. Tom Stevens, a police dog handler, checks
on the condition of, Caesar, a police dog that was fatally shot.; Black & White
Photo:, Shaughn Butts ; Police officers and their canine partners share a, bond
that stretches beyond the job's borders. The dogs become like, family. That's
one of the reasons a number of police officers across, Canada are fighting for
protection for their dog partners.

TYPE: Crime

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             756 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                       July 15, 2001 Sunday FINAL EDITION

Morgue set up for G8 summit: Unprecedented violence anticipated

BYLINE: Julian Coman and Robert Fox from

SOURCE: The Sunday Telegraph

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. D8

LENGTH: 593 words

DATELINE: ROME


Silvio Berlusconi, the Italian prime minister, has ordered security forces to
prepare for unprecedented levels of violence at this week's G8 summit in Genoa,
authorizing the purchase of 200 body bags and the setting up of a temporary
morgue in a hospital.

In the most tense build-up to an international summit for decades, the Italian
government fears a violent backlash to events at last month's European Union
summit in Goteborg, where one protester was shot by police during riots.

The United States has already laid plans to remove President George W. Bush from
his hotel to the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise in the Gulf of Genoa should
serious rioting begin.

For the past month, anti-capitalist protest groups have said that disturbances
at Genoa will dwarf those seen previously at Seattle, Prague and Goteborg. More
than 100,000 protesters are expected to converge on the city, many intent on
breaking through to the summit area.

Mr. Berlusconi has placed his authority on the line to ensure a peaceful summit,
supervising the most elaborate security measures ever seen for a G8 meeting.

A missile defence system has been installed at Genoa airport to deter airborne
terrorist attack. The land-based rockets have a range of 14 kilometres and were
previously deployed along the Adriatic coast during the NATO conflict with
Yugoslavia.

Other than Mr. Bush, most G8 leaders will be accommodated on the liner European
Vision, moored in Genoa harbour, which will be guarded by the military and
Italian police.

The Brigata Folgore, the Italian equivalent of the SAS, has been placed on
stand-by.

"We will do anything necessary to allow this summit to take place without
disturbance," said a spokesman for the Italian Interior Ministry.

There are fears however, that some protesters may already have penetrated the
Red Zone where the summit will take place. "If that is the case, we'll just have
to get them out when the time comes," said a Genoa police official.

The summit begins on Friday, but from Wednesday the city will effectively be
under siege. Italian State Railways announced last Friday that both of Genoa's
main stations would close two days in advance, in an attempt to keep protesters
away from the harbour area where the summit is being held.

The heavy precautions have angered protest groups. Vittorio Agnoletto, the
spokesman for the Genoa Social Forum, which is co-ordinating more than 1,000
anti-summit groups and associations, said: "If closing the stations is supposed
to be a challenge to us, then we can tell them right now that we are going to
get there whatever happens." Across the Internet, organizations have threatened
violence.

The German anarchist group, Autonomen, has promised disruption using "whatever
means possible."

Luca Casarini, the leader of the Italian anarchist group, the White Overalls,
said the group had studied police tactics for the past month. "We know their
strategy and how to defeat it," he said. "We will be using some highly
unconventional methods and when we storm the city's off-limit zone, we will be
ready to defend ourselves. This is not going to be a small conflict. This is a
revolution."

As pre-summit tension rises, Italian ministers have fiercely criticized the
decision, taken by the previous premier, Giuliano Amato, to hold the summit in
Genoa. "The choice of Genoa for an occasion such as this was an act of complete
irresponsibility," said Giuliano Urbani, the minister for culture. "People will
be at risk, and so will the cultural monuments."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             757 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             June 13, 2003, Friday

PM: Not constructive to impose sanctions on Myanmar

SECTION: Nation; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words


PUTRAJAYA, Thurs. - Datuk Seri Dr Mahathir Mohamad said today that it
would not be constructive to merely apply pressure or impose sanctions on
Myanmar over the detention of Opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi.

"It's not very constructive if we keep on pressing people. Whenever they
comply with something, there is no reward, (but) if they do something else
then more pressure is applied," the Prime Minister said.

Dr Mahathir was speaking at the launch of a book on Umno's founding
father Dato Onn Ja'afar.

He was asked if constructive engagement with the military junta was
still the best option in dealing with the matter.

Although Asean adopts the non-intervention principle in a member
country's internal affairs policy, the detention of Suu Kyi is expected to
be discussed during the upcoming Asean ministerial meeting in Cambodia
next week.

It is widely expected then that the United States, which is a party to
the Asean Regional Forum to be held in conjunction with the Ministerial
Meeting, would pressure Asean into taking a more stringent approach
against Myanmar.

In his most recent statement on the matter, US Secretary of State Colin
Powell had indicated that he would seek action from fellow Asean members
to pressure Myanmar into releasing the Nobel Peace Prize laureate.

Myanmar's military rulers took Suu Kyi into "protective custody" during
a trip to the north of the country on May 30 after a violent riot
involving her supporters.

Powell dismissed the explanation from Myanmar's rulers of the incident
in which Suu Kyi was taken back into custody, saying investigations by US
embassy staff showed members of the military government had directed and
staged the riot.

The US Senate meanwhile has voted 97-1 yesterday to approve a Bill to
ban all imports from the Southeast Asian nation in response to Suu Kyi's
detention.

The Senate Bill would ban imports of anything mined, made, grown or
assembled in Myanmar. It would freeze Myanmar Government assets held in
the United States, bar former and present leaders from travelling to the
United States, and require the Treasury Department to oppose World Bank or
International Monetary Fund loans.

Suu Kyi and about two dozen senior members of her National League for
Democracy have been held at locations in or outside the Myanmar capital.

On Tuesday Myanmar's ruling junta had assured visiting United Nations
special envoy Tan Sri Razali Ismail that Suu Kyi would be released as soon
as possible.

Razali, who managed to meet the Opposition leader in custody, said she
was in good health and was not injured in the riots.

"I have been given clear assurances by both Secretary One and Maung Aye
that they will lift the protective custody on her as soon as possible,"
Razali told the media after his meeting with Suu Kyi.

Secretary One is military intelligence chief Khin Nyunt and Maung Aye is
the army commander.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                             758 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday

WORLD WATCH

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 14 words

ABSTRACT

Photo of demonstrators in Manila protesting joint US-Filipino military exercises

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             759 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                             April 22, 2011 Friday

WIKILEAKS SUSPECT'S BACKERS CONFRONT OBAMA

BYLINE: EVAN PEREZ

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 36 words

ABSTRACT

Members of Bradley Manning Support Network confront Pres Obama at fund-raising
dinner with protest song  over treatment of Army Pvt Brian Manning, who is
accused of leaking classified documents to WikiLeaks (M)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             760 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday

IMAGES: THE VISIBLE HAND OF DISCONTENT

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 14 words

ABSTRACT

Photo of Iraqi protester at protest against corruption and joblessness in
Baghdad

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             761 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            October 17, 2011 Monday

NOTABLE AND QUOTABLE

BYLINE: MARK STEYN

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 40 words

ABSTRACT

Excerpt from columnist Mark Steyn writing on Oct 14 in Orange County Register on
Wall Street protesters' demand for American birthright even as they fail to
notice that times are changing and American dream is slowly dying around them

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             762 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

WE SHOULD LISTEN TO THE 99%

BYLINE: JEFF GREENE

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 30 words

ABSTRACT

Jeff Greene commentary considers arguments of Occupy Wall Street that 99% of
country feels it is losing economic opportunity and security while politicians
remain unresponsive

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             763 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday

LISTENING TO OCCUPY WALL STREET DOESN'T MEAN AGREEING

BYLINE: EFREN MARTINEZ, L DANIEL METZ, SULVIA DICKINSON, JIM MILLER, JOHN D
HATCH, ERIK R KUEHNE, PHINEAS R FISKE

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 52 words

ABSTRACT

Efren Martinez, L Daniel Metz, Sulvia Dickinson, Jim Miller, John D Hatch, Erik
R Kuehne, Phineas R Fiske letters respond to Jeff Greene's Nov 3 commentary
considering argument of Occupy Wall Street that 99% of country feels it is
losing economic opportunity and security while politicians remain unresponsive

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             764 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

FAIRNESS AND THE 'OCCUPY' MOVEMENT

BYLINE: ARTHUR C BROOKS

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 34 words

ABSTRACT

Arthur C Brooks commentary on opportunity presented by Occupy Wall Street
movement for free-enterprise advocates to make their case against income
redistributors and champion ideals of meritocracy

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             765 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

FUTURE WILL BE SHAPED BY OUR DEFINITION OF 'FAIRNESS'

BYLINE: TERRY PETERS

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 35 words

ABSTRACT

Terry Peters letter responds to Arthur C Brooks's Nov 25 commentary on
opportunity presented by Occupy Wall Street movement for free-enterprise
advocates to make their case against income redistributors

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             766 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            February 13, 2012 Monday

DIPLOMACY FALTERS IN MALDIVES

BYLINE: TOM WRIGHT

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 49 words

ABSTRACT

Clashes are growing between supporters of Maldive's ousted Pres Mohamed Nasheed
and police;  Nasheed has rejected US calls for unity government with his
successor Vice Pres Waheed Hassan Manik and blames coup on security forces loyal
to his predecessor Maumoon Abdel Gayoom; graph; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Combination

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             767 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday

CHINA VISIT STARTS WITH A DINNER, PROTESTS ON TIBET

BYLINE: JEREMY PAGE, NATHAN HODGE, BRIAN SPEGELE

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 39 words

ABSTRACT

Chinese Vice Pres Xi Jinping arrives in US for five-day visit that will boost
his profile at home and give US officials measure of country's expected next
leader;  Tibetans in Washington stage protests against Chinese policies (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             768 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday

IN PLANNING TRIP, US MINDS MANNERS

BYLINE: LAURA MECKLER

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 44 words

ABSTRACT

US officials in planning events during Chinese Vice Pres Xi Jinping's US visit
are mindful of protocol and courtesies in effort to ensure that trip by China's
likely next leader is viewed as success at home;  protesters will be kept at
safe distance; photos (M)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             769 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

CORRECTIONS &AMP; AMPLIFICATIONS

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 16 words

ABSTRACT

Correction of photo credit with article about Chinese Vice Pres Xi Jinping's
visit to US

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             770 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            April 21, 2012 Saturday

DUELING SYRIA PLANS FLOATED

BYLINE: JON LAURIA

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 47 words

ABSTRACT

Russia seeks immediate deployment of 300-person UN observer unit to Syria, while
US and EU are calling for deployment only after UN Sec-Gen Ban Ki-moon
determines violence has ceased and government forces have withdrawn, setting up
further diplomatic wrangling over Syria (S)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             771 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

BEIJING, MANILA SEA DISPUTE ESCALATES

BYLINE: BRIAN SPEGELE, JOSEPHINE CUNETA

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 43 words

ABSTRACT

China warns Philippines to protect its nationals during expected anti-Chinese
protests, while Chinese military says it is planning to defend Scarborough
Shoal;  any conflict between China and Philippines could trigger US defense pact
with Philippines (M)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             772 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday

CHICAGO BRACES FOR NATO

BYLINE: MARK PETERS, JACK NICAS

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 34 words

ABSTRACT

Occupy groups are hoping that protests at NATO summit in Chicago will revive
movement;  Chicago police are bracing for events, while many businesses are
asking employees to work from home; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             773 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday

WORLD WATCH

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 39 words

ABSTRACT

Gunmen kill Muslim cleric Aboud Rogo in Mombasa, Kenya, sparking riots;  US had
accused Rogo of supporting Islamist militants in Somalia, but human-rights
groups charge that Kenyan police are conducting extrajudicial killings (S)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             774 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            October 9, 2012 Tuesday

KABUL STUDENTS CLASH OVER UNIVERSITY NAME

BYLINE: YAROSLAV TROFIMOV, HABIB KHAN TOTAKHIL

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 45 words

ABSTRACT

Students at Kabul Education University clash with each other and police in riots
sparked by government's renaming of school as Burhanuddin Rabbani University to
honor former ethnic Tajik president and peace negotiator killed by Taliban
suicide bomber in 2011 (M)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             775 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday

FOUR DECADES LATER, KENT STATE TURNS A PAGE

BYLINE: CAROLINE PORTER

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 33 words

ABSTRACT

Caroline Porter Reporter's Journal column on changes at Kent State University
since 1970 shooting of Vietnam War protesters by Ohio National Guardsmen, which
scarred campus for decades; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             776 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            December 7, 2012 Friday

WORLD WATCH

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 39 words

ABSTRACT

Protestant militants attack offices and home of member of political party
seeking compromise over display of UK flag on government facilities in Northern
Ireland;  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is scheduled to visit today (S)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             777 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                             August 2, 2013 Friday

NORTH CAROLINIANS REACT TO 'RADICAL AND CRUEL' POLICIES

BYLINE: WILLIAM BARBER II (REV), RICHARD T GROFF JR

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 28 words

ABSTRACT

Rev William Barber II, Richard T Groff Jr letters respond to Stephen Moore's
July 20 Cross Country column on frenzy of protest among North Carolina liberal
voters

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             778 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            January 17, 2014 Friday

ITALY CHEMICALS PLAN SPARKS LOCAL BACKLASH

BYLINE: GIADA ZAMPANO

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 34 words

ABSTRACT

Local officials in Calabria are protesting Italian government's choice of port
at Giola Tauro to transfer Syrian chemical weapons from Danish vessel to to US
vessel that will destroy them at sea (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             779 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                             April 11, 2014 Friday

UKRAINE ON EDGE OVER RUSSIA

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 23 words

ABSTRACT

Photo of pro-Russian activists behind barricades at government building in
Donetsk as NATO warns of Russian deployments along border

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             780 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           December 6, 2014 Saturday

WHITE HOUSE SEEKS TO CLARIFY SYRIA POLICY

BYLINE: CAROL E LEE AND JULIAN E BARNES

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 32 words

ABSTRACT

Carol E Lee and Julian E Barnes World News article discusses efforts by Pres
Obama to reconcile his opposition to both Syrian government and Sunni militants
who are its chief foe; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             781 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                              March 6, 2015 Friday

IN SELMA, STRUGGLE AND HOPE

BYLINE: IN SELMA, STRUGGLE AND HOPE

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 44 words

ABSTRACT

Pres Obama and long list of luminaries will commemorate 50th anniversary of
'Bloody Sunday' civil-rights clash in Selma, Ala, on March 7;  Selma remains one
of poorest cities in state, and some people feel left behind by progress it
helped create; photos (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             782 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                             March 7, 2015 Saturday

OBAMA PUTTING MORE EMPHASIS ON CIVIL RIGHTS

BYLINE: COLLEEN MCCAIN NELSON, CAROL E LEE

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 54 words

ABSTRACT

Colleen McCain Nelson, Carol E Lee US News article notes Pres Obama's
back-to-back visits to African-American communities in Columbia, SC, and Selma,
Ala, highlight his recent focus on civil rights issues and offer glimpse into
where nation's first black president will put his energy when he vacates office;
photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             783 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Egyptians Seethe Over Gaza, And Their Leaders Feel Heat

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

DATELINE: CAIRO


Inside Al Azhar Mosque, a 1,000-year-old center of religious learning, the
preacher was railing on Friday against Jews. Outside were rows of riot police
officers backed by water cannons and dozens of plainclothes officers, there to
prevent worshipers from charging into the street to protest against the war in
Gaza.

''Muslim brothers,'' said the government-appointed preacher, Sheik Eid Abdel
Hamid Youssef,  ''God has inflicted the Muslim nation with a people whom God has
become angry at and whom he cursed so he made monkeys and pigs out of them. They
killed prophets and messengers and sowed corruption on Earth. They are the most
evil on Earth.''

As the war in Gaza burned through its 14th day, Arab governments have felt their
legitimacy challenged with an uncommon virulence. With each passing day, and
each Palestinian death, the popularity of Hamas and other radical movements has
ratcheted higher on the Arab street, while the standing of Arab leaders has
suffered.

Nowhere in the Arab world is the gap between the street and the government so
wide as here in Egypt, which has a peace treaty with Israel and has refused to
allow free passage of goods and people through its border with Gaza, a decision
that has been attacked by Islamic and Arab leaders and proved deeply troubling
to many Egyptians. And so the government of President Hosni Mubarak appeared to
lean back on its standard formula for preserving authority at Friday Prayer,
relying on its security forces to keep calm on the street and government
religious institutions like Al Azhar to try to appease public sentiment, in this
case by lashing out at the Jews in response to Gaza.

''The pressure is mounting on Egypt,'' said Abdel Raouf el-Reedy, a former
Egyptian ambassador to the United States. ''How come you keep the Israeli
ambassador here? How come you keep the Egyptian ambassador in Israel? How come
you still export gas to Israel in spite of a court order to stop? The system is
on the defensive. Public opinion is more clearly on the side of Hamas.''

The mood on the streets of Cairo feels somber, dark, dejected. There is a heavy
security presence. Armed riot police officers are massed outside of professional
organizations, like the Doctor's Syndicate, that are often run by members
aligned with the Muslim Brotherhood, the officially outlawed but tolerated
Islamic movement. Massive troop carriers clog small side streets.

Over three days of interviews here, people seemed deflated about the public
criticism their country had received, let down by the failure of their own
government to help the Palestinians and sickened by the deaths of hundreds of
Palestinians, not only combatants but many women and children as well. Over and
over, Egyptians said they felt the only ones they could trust were the Islamists
-- not their government.

''The Muslim Brotherhood's work gives them credibility,'' said Heba Omar, 27,
who collected about $4,000 from her neighbors to donate to a charity controlled
by brotherhood members. ''They do what they can do at times of crisis.''

On Thursday, three young men looked over the railing at the choppy gray waters
of the Nile, schoolbooks tucked beneath their arms, jackets zipped up to their
chins against the winter chill. ''Of course we are sad,'' Muhammad Atef, said in
a low, defeated voice. ''There is nothing we can do. There is nothing in our
hands.''

Mr. Atef and his schoolmates, Hazem Khaled and Ramy Morsy, all 19 years old and
studying to be electricians, were walking along the Nile Corniche, just opposite
the imposing office tower that houses Egypt's Foreign Ministry.

The diplomats handling the crisis were out of town, in New York City at the
United Nations. But the young men said they were looking elsewhere for a chance
to help the Palestinians. ''The Islamists are very close to us,'' Mr. Atef said.

''They are people we can trust,'' Mr. Khaled said.

''We trust Islamist organizations,'' Mr. Morsy said.

Talk like this has helped press Egypt to change its approach to Gaza, if not its
actual policies. When the war first began, Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit
lashed out at Hamas, blaming it for inciting the violence by refusing to heed
Israel's warnings to stop its rocket fire.

Egypt took a similar position in 2006, blaming Hezbollah for provoking Israel
and setting off its bombing campaign against Lebanon by grabbing two Israeli
soldiers in 2006. But then, as now, the government quickly changed its posture
in the face of public outrage. ''Mubarak lost credibility, not just in the Arab
world but in Egypt, too,'' said Fahmy Howeidy, an Egyptian writer with Islamist
sympathies whose work used to appear in the main government-controlled daily
newspaper, Al Ahram.

Egypt quickly tried to recover its standing by promoting a cease-fire
initiative. That failed, and again the pressure has been growing. Political and
diplomatic experts here say that officials are hoping to prop up Fatah, the
secular Palestinian faction that was routed by Hamas and now is in charge of the
West Bank. But they fear that as the fighting goes on, their reluctance to come
to the aid of Hamas will accomplish exactly the opposite. Fatah may be
undermined and Hamas empowered.

''I don't think that Fatah will be able to go back into Gaza,'' said Mr. Reedy.
''This is the irony of Israel's military strength. They will not eliminate
Hamas. Hamas will live in the minds of the people.''

For average people, the concerns of the state pale in comparison to the desire
to help stop the bloodshed. At Friday Prayer, which serves as a nexus between
religion and politics for Muslims, leading Islamic scholars in the Middle East
called for Muslims throughout the world to come together under the flag of Islam
to help. And preachers heeded their call, very often taking aim at Israel, the
Jewish people, the United States and the Egyptian president.

''The truth about Jews is that they killed prophets and messengers and broke
pacts and promises between them and other nations,'' said Ilyas Ait Siarabi
during his sermon in a neighborhood mosque in Algiers. ''And they seek to spill
blood and kill the souls of innocent old men, women and weak children.''

At the state-controlled Al Azhar in Cairo, Sheik Yousef ended his talk by
calling for unity. ''Muslim brothers, division among Muslims today is what
weakens them and made the enemy get at them,'' he said, his voice booming from
loudspeakers mounted outside the mosque. ''What we have to do, Muslim brothers,
is come together and strengthen our external and internal fronts.''

Before the service had started, a woman had stood in front of the women's
section -- men and women pray in separate areas of the mosque -- and asked
everyone to stay behind when it was over. She said they wanted the women to
create a wall to protect the men, who planned to protest, from being taken or
beaten by the police. When the service was over, a woman jumped to her feet and
shouted, ''Open the border, open the border.''

A police officer shouted for everyone to leave, and the congregants made their
way onto the street crowded with security men and riot police officers. There
never was a demonstration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 2009



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about popular anger against Israel in the
Arab world over the Gaza invasion overstated, in some editions, what is known
about Palestinian civilian and combatant deaths in Gaza since Israel's military
operation began on Dec. 27. While hundreds of Palestinians have been killed, as
the article reported, the number of combatants among them is unclear. Combatants
are not necessarily ''most'' of the total.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAIRO: Egyptians prayed outside a mosque on Friday. Preachers
have been railing against Israel and the Egyptian government.(PHOTOGRAPH BY
SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
KHARTOUM: People in Sudan on Friday took part in a demonstration against the
continuing Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHRAF
SHAZLY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 AMMAN: Riot police officers in Jordan's capital clashed with protesters near
the Israeli Embassy. About 2,000 people protested.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMAD ABU
GHOSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                             784 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Running in Circles in Kyrgyzstan

BYLINE: By ERIC McGLINCHEY.

Eric McGlinchey is an assistant professor of government and politics at George
Mason University.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: Fairfax, Va.


WHENEVER I am in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, I wake early and run in the
central stadium. I enjoy it for two reasons: first, it's one of the few places
where I can exercise without Bishkek's feral dogs attacking my ankles, and,
second, that I actually run on the track provides endless amusement for the
gaggle of Kyrgyz politicians I lap as they amble and shoot the breeze.

Some of my stadium acquaintances hold positions of power. Others do not. This
week, those on the in and those on the out swapped places. I'm certain, though,
that it will be the same gaggle at the track next week, negotiating
ever-changing alliances while the rest of Bishkek sleeps.

For those unfamiliar with Kyrgyz politics, it must appear strange that Roza
Otunbayeva, who emerged from this week's coup as the nation's interim leader,
was foreign minister for both Kyrgyzstan's first president, Askar Akayev, and
for the man who ousted Mr. Akayev, Kurmanbek Bakiyev (who himself was forced to
flee Bishkek on Wednesday). Stranger still is that after each stint  Ms.
Otunbayeva subsequently joined the ''opposition'' and played a central role in
the downfall of her boss.

As my experience at the stadium shows, however, concepts like opposition and
political parties prove an uncomfortable fit with Kyrgyz politics. The press
would do well to drop these terms and begin to analyze the political dynamic for
what it actually is -- a handful of political elites going in circles -- rather
than in terms suggestive of what we hope Kyrgyzstan can become, a competitive
democracy.

Let me be clear: What happened on Wednesday was not a revolution --  it was a
hijacking.

Being president of Kyrgyzstan shares much in common with being captain of a
plane. The president needs a few people to help him rule, say a first officer
and a navigator. Should one of these assistants prove problematic, the president
can replace him with someone from the passenger cabin. The challenge, though, is
that the passenger cabin is small. Eventually, the president must re-use the
same people he previously fired or he must fly solo. At the same time, he
remains vulnerable to passengers banding together, as they did this week, and
tossing him from the plane.

This makes Kyrgyzstan very different from its ex-Soviet neighbors. Why aren't
the presidents of countries like Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, both of whom have
been in power since the Soviet Union collapsed, so easily tossed from power? The
answer is straightforward:  the  Kazakh and Uzbek presidents have bigger planes
-- 747s compared to Kyrgyzstan's Cessna.

Should a minister falter or be seen as disloyal, President Nursultan Nazarbayev
of Kazakhstan and Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan can find ready replacements from
within the ranks of hundreds of loyal cadres, many of them holdovers from the
bureaucracy of the Soviet system. Moreover, because Kazakh and Uzbek ministers
know they can easily be replaced, they are far less likely to prove meddlesome
in the first place.

The differences trace back to the 1980s, when the Kazakh, Uzbek and Kyrgyz
political elites were all rocked by riots during Mikhail Gorbachev's perestroika
reforms. Moscow directly intervened to restore political order during riots in
Kazakhstan in 1986 and Uzbekistan in 1989. In February 1990, however, Mr.
Gorbachev decreed an end to the Communist Party's monopoly on power and
effectively told leaders in the Soviet republics that their problems were, well,
their problems.

So when riots came to the Kyrgyz Republic in June 1990, no steady outside hand
followed to restore order to Bishkek's bickering party elite. And while the
Kazakh and Uzbek presidents entered the post-Soviet period with a united, albeit
renamed single party, Kyrgyzstan's new president, Askar Akayev, had to scramble
to put together a piecemeal political system, which has never matured.

The United States and Russia provide hundreds of millions in aid to Kyrgyzstan
each year, largely in exchange for the use of air bases, but the money has done
little to stabilize the country or promote democracy. In fact, Russia's desire
to see the Americans evicted created a military bidding war, the spoils of which
only fueled Kyrgyzstan's political chaos.

Kyrgyzstan is a failed state that needs a couple of steady outside hands to help
it succeed. When President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia visits Washington next
week, President Obama needs to convince him that the United States has no
interest in remaking the political status quo in Central Asia. This means
affirming what Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and de facto leader, has
already stated: that President Bakiyev -- now in hiding in southern Kyrgyzstan
-- must resign and that we recognize  Ms. Otunbayeva's interim government as the
legitimate authority.

Kyrgyzstan is in Russia's backyard, and the fact that we depend on our air base
there for our Afghan war doesn't change that. Presenting a united front with
Russia, however, would help Washington keep its air base and avoid another
bidding war. It would also provide some political equilibrium that might keep
those now on the outs in Bishkek from hijacking the Kyrgyz state again.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                             785 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inspiring Growth, and Doubts

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words


GANDHINAGAR, India -- In a soaring, unfinished conference hall in western India,
thousands of businessmen and diplomats from around the world gathered recently
for an investment meeting. They were there to pay homage to a politician for
accomplishing something once thought almost impossible in India: making it easy
to do business.

The politician, Narendra Modi, the chief minister of the state of Gujarat, sat
onstage, stroking his close-cropped white beard, as executives from the United
States, Canada, Japan and elsewhere showered him with praise.

Ron Somers, head of an American trade group, called him a progressive leader.
Michael Kadoorie, a Hong Kong billionaire, enveloped him in a hug.

''I would encourage you all to invest here,'' Mr. Kadoorie, chairman of the
Asian power company CLP Group, told the audience, ''because it has been an even
playing field for me.''

The coastal state of Gujarat, famous as the birthplace of Mahatma Gandhi, has
become an investment magnet. The state's gross domestic product is growing at an
11 percent annual rate -- even faster than the overall growth rate for India,
which despite its problems is zipping along at 9 percent clip.

And Mr. Modi receives -- some would say claims -- much of the credit. The year
before he took office in 2001, Gujarat's economy shrank by 5 percent.

But critics of Mr. Modi, a Hindu nationalist, point to another legacy of his
early days in office -- something that has made him one of the most polarizing
figures in Indian politics. Months after he became chief minister, Gujarat
erupted in brutal Hindu-Muslim riots that killed more than 1,000 people, most of
them Muslims.

Despite Mr. Modi's subsequent denials, he has not fully escaped a cloud of
accusations by rival political groups, victims and their families, and human
rights groups that he and his aides condoned the attacks against Muslims and --
as one case now before the Supreme Court charges -- may even have encouraged
them.

A special investigation team formed by the Supreme Court has filed a 600-page
investigative report on the riots, which has not been officially released.
Numerous other lawsuits related to the riots are also winding through India's
courts. In 2005 the United States refused to grant Mr. Modi a visa, on grounds
of religious intolerance. Meanwhile, environmental activists and local tribesman
who have been protesting the construction of seven dams in Gujarat that will
displace 25,000 people say they the protesters have been regularly jailed by the
state police, charged with being Naxalites, a militant rebel group.

Mr. Modi, who has declined interview requests from The New York Times for
several years, did not comment for this article.

Of the lingering controversies, a spokesman for Mr. Modi, Steven King, with the
Washington public relations firm APCO Worldwide, wrote in an e-mail responding
to questions: ''The government has very highly developed grievance
proceedings.''

Corporate executives, though, tend to concentrate on Mr. Modi's pro-business
attributes, which they see as something of an anomaly in an India where
government bureaucracy, bumbling or corruption too often impedes commerce.

''In India there is a sense that efficiency is at such a premium because there
is so little to go around,'' said Eswar Prasad, a professor of trade policy at
Cornell who has served as an adviser to the Indian government. ''When people
find an effective politician who can make things happen on the ground, they are
willing to ignore the character flaws.''

Under Mr. Modi's watch, the energy companies Royal Dutch Shell and Total have
opened a major liquid natural gas terminal in Gujarat, and Torrent Power, an
Indian company, has built a huge power plant. Meanwhile, Tata Motors, DuPont,
General Motors, Hitachi and dozens of other foreign and Indian companies have
built factories, expanded operations or invested in projects in the state.

When the Canadian heavy machinery company Bombardier won a contract to supply
subway cars to the Delhi Metro in 2007, it needed a factory site, quickly. It
found one in Savli, an industrial estate in Gujarat. Just 18 months later-- when
in many parts of India, the permit process might still be grinding away -- the
factory was built and operating.

''It was incredible,'' said Rajeev Jyoti, the managing director of Bombardier in
India, ''and it was a world record within Bombardier.''

Compared with most other states, Gujarat has smoother roads and less garbage
next to the streets. More than 99 percent of Gujarat's villages have
electricity, compared with less than 85 percent nationally.

In 2009, Gujarat attracted more planned investment than any other state in the
country, about $54 billion by value of announced plans, according to Assocham, a
trade association of Indian chambers of commerce.

Mr. Modi, who has no business or economics background, deserves praise for this,
corporate leaders say. Before entering politics in his late 30s, he was a
religious volunteer for the Hindu nationalist group Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh,
which sponsors schools and provides aid during natural disasters, but has also
been widely criticized as being intolerant of other religions and of secular
Hindus.

In India, where corrupt politicians often seem to be raiding the public coffers
to benefit their offspring, Mr. Modi's success is sometimes attributed to his
apparent lack of a family life. Acquaintances and local news reports say he was
married at a young age but separated soon after from his wife. Mr. Modi has
never commented on reports about his personal life.

Mr. Modi's administration has brought novel solutions to some of India's most
tenacious problems. Corruption became less widespread after the state government
put a large amount of its activities online, from permits that companies need to
build or expand, to bids for contracts. To plow through a multiyear backlog of
court cases, and prevent day laborers from losing income, Mr. Modi asked judges
to work extra hours in night courts.

Mr. Modi uses a chief executive style of managing the bureaucrats who work under
him, according to associates and business executives in Gujarat. He gives
promising people positions of responsibility, sets goals and expects people to
meet them. Nonperformers are pushed aside.

It may seem an obvious way to administer a state with more than 50 million
people and a budget in the billions of dollars.

But this approach runs counter to India's tradition of cronyism. In a recent
reshuffle of India's national cabinet ministers, for example, the minister of
highways who substantially missed targets for road-building was made minister
for urban development, a crucial position for a rapidly urbanizing nation
struggling to build livable cities.

Even in another state considered pro-business, Tamil Nadu in the south, the
ruling party, D.M.K., has been dogged by accusations of corruption.

In Mr. Modi's case, the accolades once would have been unthinkable. After the
Hindu-Muslim riots a decade ago, he was considered a liability for his political
party, the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party. But these days, with
Gujarat's soaring economy, Mr. Modi is sometimes mentioned as his party's most
likely candidate for prime minister in 2014, when the next general election is
expected.

Despite his lack of executive experience, Mr. Modi's supporters credit him with
a politician's innate sense of marketing. Images of Mr. Modi were plastered on
billboards throughout Gujarat during the investment summit meeting, proclaiming
the state's support not only for investment but for social programs like support
of girls' education -- a particularly important subject in India where there is
a large literacy gap between men and women.

Within Gujarat, which has a centuries-old reputation for business acumen, even
Mr. Modi's fans sometimes grumble that he and his image makers may be taking
outsize credit for its economic growth. And they say that the headline numbers
that Mr. Modi's government trumpets can be misleading.

For example, the $450 billion in ''memorandums of understanding'' --
essentially, pledges to do business in the state -- that the government says
were signed during the January investment summit meeting double-count some
deals, according to businessmen in attendance, because they include loans and
investments for the same projects. Mr. Modi's spokesman confirmed there might be
some redundancy in the $450 billion figure, but said it was impossible to break
out the loans from the investments.

Yet, no one disputes Gujarat's rapid growth. And Mr. Modi's supporters say
India's economic success will depend on each state's adopting many of the same
measures he has employed. India's central government may apportion budgets and
write overall laws, they say, but it is the states that are responsible for
overseeing everything from land allocation to electricity distribution.

''If you are an investor in India,'' said Mr. Somers, of the United States trade
group, ''Gujarat must be at the top of your list.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Narendra Modi, chief minister of the state of Gujarat, spoke at
a conference last month that was meant to promote business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
PANTHAKY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 The Canadian company Bombardier built a manufacturing plant in Savli, Gujarat,
in 18 months, ''a world record within Bombardier,'' one executive said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY OMBARDIER) (B8)  MAP: The state of Gujarat has become an
investment magnet. (B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                             786 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                           February 13, 2014 Thursday

Cecily McMillan's Occupy trial is a huge test of civil liberties. Will they
survive?

BYLINE: Chase Madartheguardian.com

LENGTH: 977 words

ABSTRACT

Chase Madar: For years, comparing American freedom to Russian tyranny seemed
like an exaggeration. But maybe we're not so different after all

FULL TEXT

The US constitution's Bill of Rights is envied by much of the English-speaking
world, even by people otherwise not enthralled by The American Way Of Life. Its
fundamental liberties - freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, freedom from
warrantless search - are a mighty bulwark against overweening state power, to be
sure.

But what are these rights actually worth in the United States these days?

Ask Cecily McMillan, a 25-year-old student and activist who was arrested two
years ago during an Occupy Wall Street demonstration in Manhattan. Seized by
police, she was beaten black and blue on her ribs and arms until she went into a
seizure. When she felt her right breast grabbed from behind, McMillan
instinctively threw an elbow, catching a cop under the eye, and that is why she
is being prosecuted for assaulting a police officer, a class D felony with a
possible seven-year prison term. Her trial began this week.

McMillan is one of over 700 protestors arrested in the course of Occupy Wall
Street's mass mobilization, which began with hopes of radical change and ended
in an orgy of police misconduct. According to a scrupulously detailed report
(pdf) issued by the NYU School of Law and Fordham Law School, the NYPD routinely
wielded excessive force with batons, pepper spray, scooters and horses to crush
the nascent movement. And then there were the arrests, often arbitrary,
gratuitous and illegal, with most charges later dismissed. McMillan's is the
last Occupy case to be tried, and how the court rules will provide a clear
window into whether public assembly stays a basic right or becomes a criminal
activity.

New York is not the only place where the first amendment's right to assembly
continues to get gouged by police and prosecutors. In Chicago, police
infiltrators goaded three activists into making Molotov cocktails; the young men
were then charged with terror crimes - charges of which they were acquitted by
an Illinois jury last week. Now that North Carolina has erupted into enormous
protests against its far-right state government, we can likely expect police
there to seek creative ways, legal and otherwise, to stifle mass political
participation.

The freedom to assemble remains strong - as long as you're a single person
holding up your sign on a highway embankment or some other lonely spot. But the
right to engage in real public demonstrations has been effectively eviscerated
by local ordinances and heavy-handed police tactics like aggressive
surveillance, "kettling" protestors with movable plastic barriers, arbitrary
closures of public spaces and the harassment and arrest of journalists who would
tell the tale.

It's not exactly one of our sexier inalienable truths, the freedom to assemble.
It was supposed to be a done deal, a ho-hum "first-generation right" clinched
long ago in our society, threatened only in places like Ukraine or Thailand
while Americans raced forward developing new "positive" rights like the right to
water, or internet access. But like other "negative" freedoms against state
interference - freedom of religion and freedom from warrantless and invasive
searches - the right to assemble is being challenged at a time when thousands of
Americans are taking to the streets.

As our rights melt away, we have taken some solace in the nasty responses to
Pussy Riot's punk-rock protests in Putin's authoritarian state. At least we're
not like Russia, where free speech is policed and controlled by law.

But what might happen to a homegrown Pussy Riot in New York? If, say, a
politically conscious hip-hop group plugged in their amps near the altar of
Saint Patrick's cathedral in midtown Manhattan, you can bet that misdemeanor
trespassing would only be the beginning. Given that US police often have such an
easy time padding their charges - remember Cecily McMillan - it's conceivable
that an American Pussy Riot could face resisting arrest and assaulting an
officer as well. That's two years in jail, which is the same as the sentence
handed down to Pussy Riot's Maria Alyokhina and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova.

For decades, any hint of a comparison between freedom-loving America and
authoritarian Russia has been viewed as the whiny hyperbole. But anecdotes and
hypotheticals aside, how do Russia and the US compare when it comes to that
fundamental index of negative liberty? Namely, how many people does the state
lock up?

The US has the highest incarceration rate in the world. In 2012, the
incarceration rate in the United States (707 per 100,000) was about one and a
half times that of Russia (472) and over triple the peak rate of the old East
Germany (about 200). The incarceration rate for black men in the US is over five
times higher than that of the Soviet Union at the height of the gulag (pdf).
These are of course different societies with different histories - but the brute
fact of our hyperincarceration cannot be explained away.

Our clearly enumerated rights are supposed to guarantee our freedom, but in a
landscape of extreme inequality - economic, racial and gender inequality - the
letter of the law doesn't always amount to much. Changing this socioeconomic
landscape requires mass mobilization - often raucous, often messy, and utterly
vital to the health of any real democracy. With this channel of political
activity overpoliced to the point of blockage, the result is a positive feedback
loop of rising inequality and eroding freedoms.

Can this circuit be broken? The trial of Cecily McMillan could end in a lengthy
prison term or it could end in probation. But such cases matter not just for the
defendants, and not even just for our freedoms as ends in themselves. They
matter for the future of the good life in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                             787 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Senate Democrats Calling For More Food Assistance

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 585 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Citing hunger riots in developing countries and soaring grain prices around the
world, Senate Democrats called on Monday for a swift increase of $200 million in
foreign food aid, on top of an additional $350 million that President Bush has
requested in a supplemental spending measure.

In response, the administration urged Congress to give it more flexibility to
buy food for donation from local and regional providers, a method that
antihunger experts say is cheaper and more efficient than buying and shipping
American commodities, as well as encouraging agricultural development.

This month, Mr. Bush directed the Agriculture Department to release $200 million
in commodities to address the crisis, and on Monday the United States Agency for
International Development said that it was coordinating that program in addition
to $40 million in emergency food aid.

A.I.D. said the United NationsWorld Food Program and private organizations would
deliver those resources to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Haiti, Kenya,
Mauritania, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda and Zimbabwe.

At a news conference, Senators Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Robert P. Casey
Jr. of Pennsylvania, both Democrats, called for adding $200 million in food aid
to the supplemental spending measure that will provide additional financing for
military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.

''This is the worst global food crisis in more than 30 years,'' Mr. Durbin said.
''It threatens not only the health and survival of millions of people around the
world, many of them children, but it also is a threat to global security.

''As many as 36 countries, almost one-fifth of the world's nations, are now
facing food crises requiring help from abroad.''

A spokesman for the White House, Scott Stanzel, said the administration was
monitoring the crisis and moving swiftly to respond.

''We appreciate the shared concerns of members of Congress,'' Mr. Stanzel said.

He urged greater flexibility in running the programs.

''The president has continually asked Congress to support an innovative proposal
to provide food assistance by purchasing crops directly from farmers in the
developing world,'' he said. ''This flexibility would not only get food to
people in emergency situations faster, it would also build up local agriculture
and help break the cycle of famine. Unfortunately, Congress has repeatedly
failed to act on this proposal.''

The administration has urged Congress to use the farm bill, which is in
House-Senate talks, to allow up to 25 percent of United States food aid to be
bought from local or regional providers. In 2007, the United States donated more
than 1.5 million metric tons of food, valued at $1.2 billion.

The Senate proposed a much more modest pilot program to buy up to $25 million in
food for donation from producers overseas. Farm bill negotiators continued to
debate that on Monday. Separately on Monday, three Democrats, Senators Tom
Harkin of Iowa, Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and Bill Nelson of Florida, and a
Republican, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, sent a letter to Mr. Bush urging at
least $60 million in added emergency food aid, specifically for Haiti, which has
had food riots.

''The United States must now demonstrate leadership and resolve and help one of
its closest neighbors,'' the senators wrote. ''We must come to the aid of the
Haitian people.''

A spokeswoman for A.I.D., Gina Jackson, said she could not specify how much of
the $240 million emergency aid was for Haiti.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company


                             788 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            August 27, 2015 Thursday

1984 riots: US court rejects plea against Sonia Gandhi

BYLINE: IP Singh

SECTION: CHANDIGARH

LENGTH: 354 words


JALANDHAR: A United States court of appeals for the second circuit in New York
has affirmed the order of the district courts dismissing rights violation case
filed against Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The district court had dismissed
the case in June last year and the court of appeal gave its decision on Tuesday.

"Upon due consideration whereof, it is hereby ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the judgment of the district court is affirmed," stated the August 25 order
of United States court of appeals second circuit.

Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) filed a lawsuit in 2013 under ATS and TVPA against Sonia
Gandhi for allegedly shielding and protecting Congress party leaders who led
death squads to kill people belonging to the Sikh community after the
assassination of PM Indira Gandhi.

While Sonia Gandhi's lawyer Ravi Batra said that Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), which
had filed the case, was making false, reprehensible and defamatory allegations
against India's leaders and now the organization could rehabilitate itself by
announcing that it would not seek to appeal this order to the United States
Supreme Court, SFJ legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun said that they would
file a petition seeking rehearing 'en banc' requesting that all the active
judges on the court rehear the case. The petition will be filed with the US
Court of Appeals 2nd Circuit to challenge the summary order, Pannun said.

The order of August 25 held that "plaintiffs failed to plausibly allege that
defendant (Sonia Gandhi) is liable for the anti-Sikh riots."

A class action suit was filed in September 2013 by US based rights group SFJ and
victims against Sonia Gandhi under Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA) and Torture
Victim Protection Act (TVPA) for shielding and protecting Congress party leaders
who organized genocidal violence against Sikhs in November 1984. However, judge
Brian M Cogan of district court of eastern district New York in his order
pronounced on June 3 accepted the motion filed by Sonia Gandhi's counsel seeking
dismissal of the case. The appellant court has completely affirmed this order.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             789 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                Dailybhaskar.com

                    February 12, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Here are reasons why US is cozying up with Narendra Modi ahead of 2014 general
elections?

LENGTH: 479  words


Ahmedabad/New Delhi: Signalling a turnaround after years of shunning him over
2002 Gujarat riots, the US ambassador to India plans to meet the BJP's prime
ministerial candidate Narendra Modi.

Ambassador Nancy Powell's encounter with the Gujarat CM would put the United
States in line with European nations and Australia, which have already ended the
boycott of Modi amid growing indications that he will take the helm of the
world's largest democracy in elections due by the end of May.

The United States in 2005 revoked a visa for Modi under a domestic law that bars
entry by any foreign official seen as responsible for "severe violations of
religious freedom". Human rights groups say that Modi turned a blind eye to
riots in 2002 that killed up to 2,000 people, most of them Muslims.

Why is US cozying up with Modi ahead of 2014 general elections?

Despite heavy anti-incumbency, Modi won a landslide victory for the third time
in a row in the state Assembly elections held in December 2012 and became the
chief minister for a historic fourth time.

Despite objections from senior leaders of his party, Modi was inducted in the
BJP's parliamentary board and appointed as its poll panel chief. On the demands
of party cadres, the Gujarat strongman was declared as the party's PM candidate
for the upcoming Lok Sabha elections in September last year.

After his anointment as the BJP's PM nominee, he proved his charisma by pulling
crowds in almost all his public rallies. In fact, it is said that after former
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, it's only Modi who has this kind of sway
over the people.

Since being named the PM candidate of his party, the Gujarat CM has been on a
whirlwind tour of the country and the responses at his rallies have been
'overwhelming' according to BJP leaders.

Different opinion polls are predicting victory for the BJP and its prime
ministerial candidate in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Together with allies, the
BJP is expected to cross the 200 mark, in striking distance of 271 needed to
form the government in Centre.

Whether, the 'Modi-wave' will translate into votes is a matter of conjecture for
now. But, it has surely made the Western countries take notice of the man.

If Modi becomes the PM of India, then it would be a strange situation where-in
the head of world's largest democracy cannot set foot on the US soil.

Probably, sensing the times ahead, the United States has been forced to do a
re-think on its policy vis-a-vis Modi and thus the move by Nancy Powell to meet
the Gujarat CM, which has been scheduled for the later part of this week in
Ahmedabad.

Earlier, British High Commissioner to India James Bevan had met Modi in October
2012 in Gandhinagar, saying that in order to have stronger relations with India,
UK could not overlook Gujarat.

In March last year, Britain's Foreign Office Minister Hugo Swire met Modi in
Gandhinagar.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2014 I Media Corp Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                             790 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

USPTO grants trade mark "LOT RIOT" to Creek Entertainment, Inc (FLORIDA)

LENGTH: 41  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Creek Entertainment, Inc (FLORIDA), has been granted trademark (4403038) titled
as "LOT RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 025. US 022 039. G & S: Jackets; Shirts. FIRST USE: 20120901.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             791 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 14, 2016 Thursday

Why Uyghur Issues Go Unreported--in and outside China

LENGTH: 1525  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Uyghur American Association has issued the following news release:



 According to the Committee to Protect Journalists' most recent census, China is
the world's leading jailer of journalists, with 49 imprisoned as of December
2015. Of those 49, at least 14 are Uyghurs--a startling proportion given that
the Turkic-speaking Muslim ethnic group, living in the country's northwest
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous region, makes up less than one percent of the
country's population. That disproportionation, however, is less surprising to
those familiar with the long-fraught relationship between the Uyghur people and
China's authoritarian government.





 Uyghurs, unlike the rest of China's 55 officially designated minority groups
(with the other exception being the Tibetans), have a history, albeit a short
one, as an independent nation. The region gained independence as the East
Turkestan Republic in 1933 and again, after being sacked by the Chinese Muslim
army during the Kumul Rebellion, in 1944. The Silk Road region officially came
under Communist rule when the party took control of China in 1949.



 Since then, the state has sponsored mass migration of the Han Chinese, China's
predominant ethnic group, to Xinjiang to support economic development; Han now
comprise nearly half the region's population. Meanwhile, the country's central
government has increasingly portrayed Uyghur separatists, who seek to govern
themselves and call the Xinjiang region East Turkestan, as terrorists--claims
that many human rights activists say are exaggerated and an excuse to justify
oppressive policies that curtail Uyghur commercial and cultural activities.
There are restrictions on Islamic religious practices, and Uyghur language
instruction in schools is being phased out. Reports from the region chronicle a
pattern of abuse that includes imprisonment, torture, and disappearances.



 Tensions came to a head in July 2009 during a major period of discord between
Uyghurs and Han Chinese. A series of riots in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, left
nearly 200 people dead, Chinese authorities reported, most of them Han. In the
wake of the incident, thousands of Uyghurs were arrested and detained, including
a number of citizen bloggers who are among the country's currently imprisoned
journalists, and others--as many as 10,000, according to exiled Uyghur leader
Rebiya Kadeer--simply disappeared.



 The treatment of citizen journalists in the wake of the riots was a familiar
story. Uyghurs' access to the outside world is severely limited--following the
unrest, the government enforced a complete Internet and cell service blackout in
the region for close to a year--and those trying to disseminate information
outside of the vague, incomplete reporting from the state-run media face severe
sanctions. Even Uyghurs reporting on the region from abroad are not exempt;
Chinese authorities tried to intimidate D.C.-based Radio Free Asia journalist
Shohret Hoshur to abandon his reporting on Uyghurs by detaining three of his
brothers still living in Urumqi and charging them with leaking state secrets
(two of the brothers were released in December). Hoshur has not been deterred,
however; this summer, he told The New York Times he feels an obligation to
continue reporting on his homeland.



 Greg Fay, project manager of the Uyghur Human Rights Project, a nonprofit
started in 2004 to promote human rights and democracy for the Uyghur people,
talked with Nieman Reports about the heavy restrictions on Uyghur journalism.
Below are edited and condensed excerpts of that conversation:





 hat do we know about the 17 Uyghur journalists--and possibly many more--that
are currently imprisoned?



 Really very little. Most of them, their prison sentences are not up, but we
don't know the status of many of them. That's pretty par for the course; it's
very difficult for us to get word from people who are out of prison because the
last thing they want to do is violate this extreme restriction on information
about the Uyghur people that China enforces so strictly.



 One prominent Uyghur scholar/citizen journalist imprisoned is the Bejing-based
professor Ilham Tohti. His website was a little different from the Uyghur
websites operating at the time because his website was in Chinese. His purpose
was to encourage communication between Han Chinese, Uyghurs, and all ethnic
groups in China; he was trying to create a forum in which people could interact
with one another and learn about issues impacting the region. He was arrested
after the riots but later released and forced to move his website to overseas
servers, but last year, he was imprisoned and sentenced to life, charged with
separatism. That was really the nail in the coffin of this Uyghur citizen
journalist movement.



 Heavy government restrictions and tight control of information make independent
reporting difficult in all of China. In what ways is the Uyghur region unique?



 The decimation of the Uyghur Web in 2009 is really unique. The government
flicked a switch and cut off all Internet access in this region for 10 months
[after the riots], from July 2009 to May 2010, and in doing so also took down
all of the most popular Uyghur websites, places where these important
conversations about the unrest were taking place. In general, it's just more
difficult for people to access certain tools that are available elsewhere in
China, like tools to circumvent the Chinese firewalls or Sina Weibo, the Chinese
microblog. We've had Uyghur people reporting difficulties accessing these sites,
even registering their Uyghur-sounding names, and when they go to post things,
we've heard reports of lag times of weeks and sometimes it just won't go up [at
all]. That goes far above and beyond what Chinese users experience elsewhere.



 And though state-run media across China is heavily restricted, sometimes
journalists have a bit more leeway, but you just don't hear about state
journalists in the Uyghur region crossing any lines. Media elsewhere in China
don't really report on Uyghur issues because they acknowledge that this is one
area that is simply off-limits.



 What challenges do foreign journalists reporting on the Uyghur region face?



 There are plenty of restrictions even to get into the region. No international
outlets have a bureau in the region or any reporters stationed there. I think
also part of what's really necessary for conducting journalism in China is to
have news assistants [such as translators and mediators] regionally, and I think
that would be a real challenge for someone to do that in the Uyghur region.
There have been several news outlets that have tried to do critical reporting
and they have just found that access is so limited; they're trailed and harassed
by authorities, especially when some kind of sensitive incident has taken place.
And were these journalists to get access, it would be extremely dangerous for
anyone who spoke to them. There have been cases of reprisals facing people who
have reported on issues in the region and anybody who is brave enough to act as
a source would be putting themselves and their families at risk.



 [Following the riots], the U.S. media did its best to try to figure out what
was going on at that time, but their access was extremely limited. Foreign media
was trying to get the story but, at the end of the day, the kind of hard,
investigative reporting that you would really need to find out what happened,
particularly to the hundreds of Uyghur individuals who disappeared after the
incident, who were rounded up, who were imprisoned--that never happened. There
are still many, many questions surrounding those events: reports of
extrajudicial killings, reports of lack of due process, and disappearances.



 How does the persecution of Uyghur journalists mirror the Chinese government's
treatment of the Uyghur population as a whole?



 It's very reflective of the kind of small space Uyghur people have for freedom
of expression. The suppression of journalists prevents not only the outside
world but even people in the Uyghur region from knowing what's going on. What's
going on now is an intensified crackdown on religious practice, limits on
mobility and the ability to get a passport; there's even been an introduction in
the region of a new form of identification card that will prevent people from
moving between cities. So these other freedoms--freedom of assembly, freedom of
expression, freedom of religion--are all made that much more vulnerable by the
silencing of Uyghur journalists.



 How essential is a free press in promoting peace in the region?

 I think it's absolutely essential. Without a free press, people have no means
of expressing what's going on. There's rapid change taking place in the Uyghur
homeland and Uyghur people generally have very little say over what's happening
and how it's happening. Taking away the mechanisms through which people can
discuss these changes and make known how they would like to see development of
their homeland take place is going to lead to unrest.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             792 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                January 1, 2004

A Bard time had by all

SECTION: Features; General; Columnist; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 453 words


William Charles Macready was not the first Shakespearean actor to be pelted with
tomatoes.  There is an honourable tradition of using rotten fruit to criticise
rotten acting.

But Macready is almost certainly the only luvvie whose performance in Macbeth
provoked a riot in which 23 people were shot dead and more than 100 wounded.

It happened in New York on May 10, 1849. Macready, a fairly loathsome customer,
was a leading English actor who was the sworn enemy of Edwin Forrest, another
great tragedian and one with a dangerously short fuse.

Forrest was an American thesp with a violent nature who was much given to
brawling. Macready, a notorious snob, offended nearly everybody he met.

Their feud had lasted 20 years by 1849 and their mutual animosity had begun to
symbolise the social tensions, class divisions and anti-British feeling that
were rife at the time. On the night of the riot, both were playing Macbeth in
different New York Theatres. Macready's performance at The Astor Place Opera
House was patronised by American Anglophiles, while Forrest's fan club included
the Bowery Boys, the infamous New York gang.

A stone-throwing crowd of 15,000 gathered outside the opera house and the
audience inside threw tomatoes at Macready. In an effort to quell the ensuing
riot, the U.S. militia opened fire on the rioters - the first time in the
history of the States that soldiers had fired into a crowd. These extraordinary
events are recalled by Tim Pigott-Smith in The Astor Place Riots, tomorrow's
Sunday Feature on R3 at 9.30pm. On Monday, Michael Portillo revisits some of
history's most momentous events and looks for evidence of spin in The Things We
Forgot To Remember (R4, 8pm). He starts with The Battle of Britain, arguing that
the importance of the war in the air was emphasised at the expense of the
equally vital battle fought by the Royal Navy.

Portillo reminds us that only the Navy stood between Britain and the German
seaborne invasion, which was a real possibility after Germany had defeated
France and therefore had the capability to take control of the French fleet
(which the British destroyed at Mers-el-Kebir before the Nazis could get their
hands on it).

Later the same evening, Peregrines In The City (R4, 9pm) investigates the
changing habitat of the fastest animal on earth - the Peregrine falcon
(pictured).

On July 30, 1941, the BBC Symphony Orchestra relocated from its wartime billet
in Bristol to a new home in Bedford, where it remained for the rest of the war.
Sixty years on, the orchestra makes a return visit and Wednesday's Performance
on 3 concert from Bedford School at 7.30pm features works by Stravinsky,
Sibelius and Britten.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 The Sentinel (Stoke)


                             793 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 19, 2001

Unhappy McLeish hits out at Hibs sloppiness

BYLINE: Teddy Jamieson

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 695 words


Stirling Albion 2 - Hibernian 3.

VISITORS to Forthbank on Saturday afternoon could have been forgiven for
thinking they had wandered on to the set of a horror movie rather than a
football ground, given the fog that shrouded the ground.

Yet as the mist curdled and deepened and spectators strained to see the
increasingly ghostly shapes of the players, the only real shock in this
particular story was that referee John Rowbotham let the game play to a finish.

Conditions apart, the plot in the end proved predictable enough with the
visitors from the SPL seeing off the threat of their part-time hosts.

To their credit, the second division side played above and beyond expectations,
given their current league status and the fact that their No.5, Kevin

Gaughan, was red-carded after just 10 minutes.

Hibs, in contrast, played well below their ability, but it still took some
impressive goalkeeping from Chris Reid to keep Albion in sight of the visitors.

In the end it took a goal from Tom McManus 12 minutes from time to ensure Hibs
the victory and allow Alex McLeish to sum up his side's performance in a mood of
irritation rather than outright anger.

"We are in the hat. That was the objective before the game started, but we were
unbelievably sloppy," McLeish admitted.

"When Stirling went down to 10 men it was like we were saying, 'Ach well, I'll
let someone else do the covering for me. I'll not run as much as I've run in
other games.' I thought we were lazy all over the pitch."

When Frank Sauzee scored from the free-kick that resulted from Gaughan's
indiscretion, to cancel out Chris Templeman's sublime if unexpected fourth-
minute opener for the Albion, Hibs began to control the flow of the game.

Yet as an attacking force they quickly settled into a rut of predictability.

In the circumstances, their second goal, in 26 minutes, stood out as a cameo of
incisiveness, with Laursen picking out David Zitelli, whose centre was inch-
perfect for John O'Neil to clip it smartly past Reid.

That should have proved the foundation for a comfortable victory, but Hibs
retained their casual attitude to the game and then compounded matters by
letting Albion back into the game at the start of the second half.

The home side emerged from the break looking to impose themselves on the game
and they did just that, forcing Hibs on to the back foot - though it was
Stirling striker Ally Graham's back heel that set up the equaliser. The
veteran's pass put John Millar through in the box only to be hauled down by
Sauzee at the cost of a penalty.

No red card for the Frenchman, Stirling fans were quick to point out. Though
unlike Gaughan in the first half, Sauzee had not been the last man.

Graham converted the spot kick, and with honours even and the fog thickening,
the ref would not have been blamed if he had opted to abandon the match at that
point.

Ray Stewart, the Stirling manager, for one would not have argued."I think we
should have called it off at 2-2. Everyone would have been happy. You couldn't
see the game."

"They were probably the worst conditions I've ever played in," concurred his
keeper. "I felt really sorry for the supporters. They didn't get their money's
worth."

That perhaps depends on which side of the scoreline you were looking from.

"I thought the conditions were definitely playable," suggested O'Neil, and Reid
did admit that he would not have wanted the game to end after Graham's
equaliser.

"I think if the referee decided to cancel it at 2-2 there would have been a bit
of a riot from us."

As it was, Reid was the busiest man on the pitch for the last half-hour. Having
saved from Matthias Jack and Zitelli, he was finally caught out by McManus,
whose shot took a deflection off Stirling's John Millar to ensure that there was
no chance of a repeat of Albion's historic cup victory over Hibs two years ago;
or even a lucrative replay at Easter Road.

"We've got to be proud of what we've done," concluded Stewart "I think everyone
deserves an Oscar tonight."

Unfortunately for Stewart's men, we all know that horror movies never win
academy awards.

LOAD-DATE: March 09, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ALEX McLEISH: We were sloppy

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                             794 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                                 SECOND EDITION

SPORTS DIGEST

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: 0


Leipheimer captures Tour of Switzerland

Levi Leipheimer of the United States won the Tour of Switzerland on Sunday,
overtaking Damiano Cunego of Italy in the final time trial.

Leipheimer, 37, finished in 31 hours, 45 minutes, 2 seconds. Cunego had worn the
yellow jersey since Monday and finished four seconds behind.

Steven Kruijswijk of the Netherlands was third, 62 seconds behind the leader.
U.S. rider Tejay Van Garderen was 10th overall despite equipment problems during
the last stage.

Switzerland's Fabian Cancellara won the ninth and final stage, a 20-mile circuit
around the northern city of Schaffhausen. Cancellara also won the time trial on
the first day.

This year's race was overshadowed by the crash of Juan Mauricio Soler on
Thursday. His Movistar team said the Colombian's condition is improving, but he
remains in an induced coma with a fractured skull and ankle.

The Tour of Switzerland leads to the Tour de France, which starts on the French
Atlantic coast July 2. (AP)

Nevada's Ault wins contract extension - Nevada football coach Chris Ault
received a two-year contract extension after guiding the Wolf Pack to a 13-1
record and the No. 11 ranking last season. The contract now runs through the
2013 season.

Ault, 64, who's entering his 27th overall season as Nevada's head coach, had
earned a base annual salary of $443,092, plus performance bonuses. His contract
calls for a $25,000 annual salary increase, but he decided to forfeit the
increase in the coming year and voluntarily accept a 4.8 percent salary
reduction along with other university faculty and staff on the state-funded
portion of his salary.

Ault was the lowest-paid head coach among teams that finished in the final AP
Top 25 poll last season, and he was the only Top 25 head coach to make less than
$1 million last year. (AP)

Red Sox honor Stanley Cup champs before game - The Boston Red Sox honored the
Stanley Cup champion Bruins with a 15-minute on-field ceremony before Sunday's
game against Milwaukee.

Members of the Bruins, who captured the Cup with a Game 7 win over Vancouver on
Wednesday, rode in on four Duck Boats - as they did in a parade through the
street of Boston on Saturday.

As they entered, Bruins players, dressed in their black jerseys, threw soft
baseballs and pucks to the fans in Fenway Park. (AP)

Russian police accused of zapping player - A Russian soccer club accused riot
police of zapping one of its players with an electric shock as he tried to throw
his shirt into the stands during a league game.

Television footage shows shirtless Serbian striker Danko Lazovic being
approached by police officers as he moved toward his team's fans in Saturday's
road game at Volga Nizhny Novgorod.

Zenit St. Petersburg says Lazovic was given an electric shock that left a burn
mark under his right shoulder blade. Police deny the accusation. (News services)

Phelps loses again in tune-up for worlds - Michael Phelps lost for the third
straight time in one of his signature events, finishing a tenth of a second
behind Australia's Nicholas D'Arcy in the 200-meter butterfly at the Santa Clara
(Calif.) International Grand Prix.

The 14-time Olympic gold medalist and world-record holder in the event was
chased down in the final 25 meters, with D'Arcy touching the wall a fingertip
ahead at 1 minute, 55.39 seconds. Phelps hadn't lost the 200 fly in almost nine
years and now has dropped three in a row. The two other losses came to China's
Peng Wu. (AP)

Water polo player apologizes after riot - A star on Canada's junior water polo
team has apologized for his role in the Stanley Cup riot in Vancouver.

A sobbing Nathan Kotylak, 17, told local TV that what he did was "dumb." He
surrendered to police after social media sites posted pictures showing him
stuffing a burning rag into the gas tank of a police car. The violence followed
the Canucks' loss to the Boston Bruins on Wednesday. (AP)

Brazilian duo wins beach volleyball world title - Brazilians Larissa Franca and
Juliana Felisberta Da Silva captured the beach volleyball world title in Rome,
beating two-time Olympic champions Misty May-Treanor and Kerri Walsh of the
United States.

In the men's final, Alison Cerutti and Emanuel Rego beat fellow Brazilians
Marcio Araujo and Ricardo Santos 21-16, 21-15. (AP)

Goggin wins Wichita Open - Australia's Mathew Goggin won the Wichita Open for
his second Nationwide Tour title of the year and fourth overall, birdieing the
final hole for a 2-under 69 and a one-stroke victory over Kyle Thompson. (AP)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BRIEF

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             795 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 26, 2011 Monday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Democracy or capitalism? Other Voices o Income inequality plus political cash is
a recipe for unrest.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 532 words

DATELINE: 0


From time to time, the Editorial Page presents commentaries from a variety of
sources on issues important to St. Louis readers. The following is an excerpt
from a Sept. 19 post on the Harvard Business School blog by James Allworth, a
fellow at the school's Forum for Growth and Innovation.

You might have heard that [on Sept. 17] a large contingent of folks started a
protest on Wall Street.... The day before that, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg
warned that frustrations over the U.S. economic and political situation could
boil over into riots. The U.S. has seen its share of robust political protests
in recent years, but this feels different. Something is emerging within America
that has never happened before: the country has to choose between democracy and
capitalism....

There's no doubt that relying on the principles of democracy and capitalism has
propelled the U.S. to unparalleled heights in human history. Not only the
worlds' foremost economic superpower, but also for its adherence to democratic
principles, it is held up as the shining light on the hill for all those around
the world.

It's been fortunate that it has always been in a position where the two have
gone hand in hand.

Yet looking at the national debate - the emergence of the Tea Party, of the
protesters in Manhattan, and prophecies of rioting by the Mayor of New York -
you can't help but feel that something in the U.S. is different now than any
time in its history. That change may force America to do something it's never
had to do before: work out which of its two values it holds most dear.

What's causing this? There are two overarching trends that are converging to
force the argument.

The first is income inequality. It's hard to look at a newspaper, a periodical,
or listen to the radio without seeing more and more about inequality in the U.S.
And this isn't just happening because those at the top are winning. In real
income terms, those at the bottom have been going backwards.

This trend continues with every passing day given the "jobless recovery" the
country is experiencing at the moment. While corporate profits are beginning to
return to their pre-Financial Crisis numbers, unemployment is not budging.

Yet simultaneously, the importance of money in politics has grown to its
greatest level in the past 50 years....

It's when you put these trends together that you begin to understand why the
U.S. may soon be faced with a choice unlike any other in its history: the
primacy of democracy or capitalism. So far, the decision, whether explicit or
not, has been that capitalism matters more....

We've somehow managed to engineer ourselves a situation where not only do we
have a massive concentration of wealth, but also a political system where wealth
can influence the ballot box in a way that wasn't conceivable before. It's meant
that a whole range of voices and ideas have been excluded from the national
debate, and it's part of the reason why all the proposed solutions to our
economic problem seem relatively narrow and only appear to be making things
worse.

We're all so focused on staying the world's capitalist superpower that we've let
slip some of the most important principles of democracy.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             796 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 19, 2015 Saturday
                                Ontario Edition

NON-FICTION;
Armed and ready;
The rise of gun culture in North America

BYLINE: CHRIS NUTTALL-SMITH

SECTION: BOOKS; Pg. R18

LENGTH: 1819 words


Arms: The Culture and Credo of the Gun By A.J. Somerset Biblioasis, 342 pages,
$22.95

We have rules in our family about the guns we keep. We have safety rules, of
course: a paranoiac's fantasia of keys, combinations and triple-locked
redundancy so complete that it took me half an hour to get at my rifle before
deer season last December, and another half hour to unlock the ammunition. More
important, we also observe what I think of as cultural rules. The guns we own
are for grouse and duck and deer - hunting, and only those. They are not ever
for "a certain level of security" - for fending away and possibly killing other
humans - as Canada's prime minister approvingly put it earlier this year. We
will never own a handgun or a semiautomatic, combat-ready rifle, much less one
of those revolver-shaped "We Don't Dial 9-1-1" signs.

And because we live in Toronto, in a neighbourhood that isn't likely to look
highly on firearmowners, my seven-year-old knows he is never to talk with his
friends about guns or hunting, or to mention the .177 calibre pellet rifle that
I bought him, that he uses to plink at paper bulls' eyes on a family friend's
farm. This, above all, is our household's most important gun rule: We are not
and never will be gun people, and we have no interest in being confused for
such. Which puts me in an odd and rarely heard-from minority, I thought, until
reading A.J. Somerset's Arms: The Culture and Credo of the Gun.

Somerset is a former gunnery instructor with the Canadian army. He is an
outdoors journalist, novelist (Combat Camera, 2011) and sport shooter based in
London, Ont., who writes with his Browning pump shotgun disassembled, in front
of him, on his desk. At the age of 46, Somerset's ears ring constantly, he says,
"... the direct and irreversible result of my recent hobby, trapshooting,
hundreds of rounds a week from a 12-gauge, the shotgun bucking in my hands and
barking in my ear." His gun-nut credentials, in other words, are more or less
intact.

Yet Somerset, like me, is mostly disgusted by what passes in both Canada and the
United States for gun culture. "If you own guns, it is now taken as given that
you must believe even the most tentative gun control is at best futile and at
worst a step towards the total confiscation of all firearms by a totalitarian
state," he writes.

"And of course you are also assumed to hold a set of shared beliefs on any
number of subjects completely unrelated to guns - on partisan politics and
government and climate change and environmental regulations and religion and
whether the war in Iraq was a good idea - as if your gun had come with a free,
bonus ideological Family Pack."

Arms is Somerset's look at the rise of that gun culture in North America, and an
attempt - albeit a dishonest one; his conclusions come off as preordained - to
puzzle out how we got to this place. It is a polemic disguised only loosely as
journalism. "I am after the Wellspring of Crazy," he writes in the book's
introduction. Dishonest as his approach may be, the journey promises to be a
barrel full of fun.

He begins with gun culture's origin story and the development of the modern
firearm, cribbing heavily from St. Mary's University historian R. Blake Brown's
superb and groundbreaking Arming and Disarming: A History of Gun Control in
Canada, published in 2012.

Early Canada was rifle-crazy, we learn. Target shooting was once among the
country's most popular sports, and it was the first to receive federal funding,
through the Dominion of Canada Rifle Association. The results of shooting
matches were reported in The Toronto Globe, much the way PGA scores are reported
today.

Within a couple of years of Confederation, Canada's national militia was
populated with expert shooters - a reality that caused no small amount of
consternation around the United States. "Canada today has 45,000 trained
marksmen among her volunteers, England 150,000, while the United States has
none," The New York Times fretted in 1872.

And so the National Rifle Association was created to correct that shortcoming:
to "promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific basis." Yet to get the
NRA up and running required expert help from Canada. Canadians helped to design
the first NRA rifle range, on Long Island. At least in the short term, we also
owned that range's podium: A Canadian sharpshooter won the NRA's first rifle
match.

As a would-be popular historian, Somerset is not bad - not at least on the
top-down, great man history bits. He tracks the devolution of the NRA, for
instance, from an organization that supported and even authored (relatively)
sensible national firearms regulations to one that bitterly opposes any gun
control measures. He delves nicely into the role of race in gun culture and gun
control: "Guns are all about keeping black people down," he writes in one of
Arms's strongest chapters. When the U.S. Gun Control Act was passed in 1968 in
the face of race riots, the United States's gun lobby stood aside.

That act, which banned cheap "Saturday Night Special" handguns, among other
measures, was aimed mostly at young, urban black men, many argue. "The NRA,
feeling that black control was something the sportsmen of America could live
with, cautiously approved."

On the lobby's recent embrace of female shooters, he is equally scathing. "This
is a special form of feminism, in which men are still in charge, and strong,
independent women stand up for the things men like, such as guns," he writes. On
the campaigns to arm women to better protect them, he pronounces, "The true
threat to women's safety is not in the park, where balaclava-clad rapists lurk;
it's in the home, and it calls you 'Honey.' " On the survivalist movement, which
often espouses the stockpiling of combat arms and ammunition, he seethes, "The
survivalist's greatest fear is not that our society will collapse into violence.
His greatest fear, his greatest disappointment, is that it will not."

We watch the birth of the Canadian gun lobby in response to a national firearms
licensing proposal in the 1970s. In Canada, at least, the gun lobby wasn't
entirely delusional. A few years later, Allan Rock, the minister of justice who
introduced Canada's doomed national long gun registry, arrived in Ottawa "with
the firm belief that the only people in Canada who should have firearms are
police officers and the military." What were gun owners - even the many sensible
ones - supposed to think?

Yet while Arms's early, official history is interesting enough and nicely told,
the book begins to fall apart when Somerset turns to the all-important questions
of culture and values and why they've evolved. He careens from criminal case to
criminal case, from self defence precedents to standyour-ground and open-carry
laws, through court judgments and pop-psychology, through fetid Internet
chatrooms and comment streams, through mass murders (David Koresh, Timothy
McVeigh, Marc Lépine, Justin Bourque and a menagerie of killers all make cameos
here), through survivalist how-to books and YouTube clips, through Tom Clancy
novels and even through a seemingly endless section on the Woody Guthrie song
1913 Massacre, but too often because these provide fuel for Somerset's
indignation and props to support his argument (in a phrase: that gun culture
runs on "gurgling idiocy"), instead of real depth or insight.

In Somerset's lengthy - and by lengthy, I mean stupefying - disquisition on the
role of the Hollywood western, we learn in detail about the plot and character
differences between Kurt Russell's Tombstone and Kevin Costner's Wyatt Earp,
among many other movies, but not in service of original thought. We learn about
them so that Somerset can cluck about how the western "hammers history into myth
with glib certainty, discarding the complexity of law in favour of simple
justice, under which you need only feel that you're in the right to inherit all
the moral authority justice can bestow." It all begins to feel like being locked
in a room with your moralizing granddad, clearing his throat and angrily shaking
his morning tabloid.

Worse yet, granddad's never really left home to see firsthand what he's so
furious about.

This is the greatest failing of Arms: While it promises to locate the wellspring
of crazy - to be a sort of Among the Thugs, but about gun nuts instead of soccer
hooligans - Somerset hasn't done the legwork. Apart from a handful of
well-reported, well-told set pieces, Somerset doesn't much talk with real-life
crazies. (An exception: the chapter on the Dryden, Ont., gunsmith Bruce
Montague, who is the Canadian gun lobby's favourite martyr.

Montague kept a Timothy McVeigh-worthy armoury of highly illegal weapons in a
secret room in his home, yet he's seen in many circles as a Canadian hero,
defending freedom and righteousness for all of us. This makes for brilliant and
deeply infuriating reading.)

Somerset writes an entire chapter on survivalists without presenting any
evidence he's actually encountered one. (Among his sources: the short-lived NBC
series Jericho, and Night of The Living Dead.) This is particularly appalling
considering that the United Survivalist Network of Ontario is headquartered not
two hours from where Somerset lives.

My suspicion: The group was nowhere near as crazy or as heavily armed as the
author's thesis required.

I would love, as well, to have read about Somerset's encounters with the
leadership of the Canadian Shooting Sports Association - the group that has the
federal government's ear and the dream of stripping away many of Canada's more
restrictive guns laws.

That group is "Canada's own little NRA," Somerset charges, "eagerly importing
the values of the American gun nut."

Yet if Somerset ever spoke with them, that interaction didn't make it into the
book. Which is too bad, because they're easy people to get on the phone. I
called the Canadian Shooting Sports Association for a story a couple of years
ago. I could clearly hear the wellspring of crazy gurgling madly in the
background the entire time.

Somerset also doesn't bother to break down the recent political mainstreaming of
what were once considered fringe ideas about guns in Canada, or the
patron-client connections between Canada's Conservative party and the gun lobby.
(See: "A certain level of security," above.)

But diving into that particular swamp would have taken real reporting. So he
leaves that story - a rather important one if you're writing a book on gun
culture and its evolution in Canada - wholly unaddressed.

Arms ends with an angry appeal for dialogue and for common sense. "But before
that could happen, we would have to stop flinging monkey shit at each other, to
come down from the treetops, and conduct ourselves like adults," Somerset
scolds.

But neither he, nor the conversation on guns in Canada, seem ready to do that
just yet.

Chris Nuttall-Smith is the Globe and Mail's Toronto restaurant critic.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             797 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                             May 14, 2014 Wednesday

Modi Visa Row: US State dept avoids direct response

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WASHINGTON, May 14 -- Continuing to maintain its silence on granting a visa to
BJP leader Narendra Modi, the US said that heads of state and government are
eligible for A1 visas and no individual automatically qualifies for an American
visa.

"Heads of state and heads of government are eligible for A1 visa classification
under the INA (Immigration and Nationality Act). No individual automatically
qualifies for a US visa," State Department Spokesperson Jen Psaki told reporters
yesterday.

"US law exempts foreign government officials, including heads of state and heads
of government from certain potential inadmissibility grounds," Psaki said when
asked about the possibility of issuing a visa to Modi, whose BJP-led NDA
coalition is projected by exit polls to form the next government in India.

Refusing to go into details, Psaki refrained from responding to direct questions
on the Modi visa issue, except for saying that the US looks forward to working
with new Indian government.

"We don't talk about visa applications. We are looking forward to working with
the new Indian government when they are elected. But I am not going to speculate
on that given, obviously, the results haven't been announced yet," she said. The
results of the 16th general elections of India are scheduled to be announced on
May 16. In 2005, the US State Department had revoked Modi's visa for travelling
to the US on grounds of alleged human rights violations related to the 2002
Gujarat riots. The US has repeatedly said there has been no change in its
long-standing visa policy relating to Modi but that he is free to apply for a
visa and await a review, like any other applicant. Last year, Modi's plans to
address by video a University of Pennsylvania conference were scrapped following
opposition from Indian-American professors, alumni and students.

However, in a sudden u-turn in February, the US signalled the end of its boycott
of Modi when its ambassador in India, Nancy Powell, met him in Gujarat. US
Officials have since said whoever is elected as India's next leader will be
welcome in the US.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             798 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 21, 2014 Monday

USPTO grants trade mark "MIME RIOT" to Steve Rotter (INDIVIDUAL) (ILLINOIS)

LENGTH: 60  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Steve Rotter (INDIVIDUAL) (ILLINOIS), has been granted trademark (4515321)
titled as "MIME RIOT" from the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 009. US 021 023 026 036 038. G & S: Musical sound recordings
featuring music; downloadable sound recordings featuring music; compact discs
featuring music. FIRST USE: 20140101.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             799 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      August 19, 2014 Tuesday 10:05 AM GMT

Ferguson riots: US attorney general to visit Missouri after another night of
violence over shooting of black teenager

BYLINE: David Gardner in Los Angeles

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 443 words


The US attorney general was today preparing to travel to the riot-hit town of
Ferguson after fresh clashes erupted over the police shooting of an unarmed
black teenager.

Police fired tear gas and stun grenades after claiming they were bombarded with
Molotov cocktails as the simmering anger over the shooting of Michael Brown, 18,
in the St Louis suburb boiled over.

Peaceful protests earlier last night turned ugly after a tense standoff erupted
in street battles.

Two CNN presenters were forced to don gas masks when they were caught up in the
melee and another TV crew was pelted with rocks.

President Barack Obama repeated his call for calm and Missouri Governor Jay
Nixon deployed the National Guard to quash what he called "a violent criminal
element intent upon terrorising the community."

Mr Obama expressed sympathy for the "passions and anger" sparked by Mr Brown's
death but said that looting and attacks on police "only serves to raise tensions
and stir chaos".

"Let's seek to heal rather than to wound each other," he said at the White
House.

Overcoming the mistrust endemic between many communities and their local police
would require Americans to "listen and not just shout," he added.

"That's how we're going to move forward together, by trying to unite each other
and understand each other and not simply divide ourselves from one another," he
added.

The president also said US Attorney General Eric Holder would travel to Ferguson
later this week to meet with FBI and other officials carrying out an independent
investigation into Mr Brown's death.

Activists from the New Black Panther Party and other community groups called for
restraint from demonstrators enraged over the shooting on August 9 that has
triggered nine nights of violent street clashes.

The teenager - accused by police of stealing cigars from a local shop - was shot
six times in a confrontation with police officer Darren Wilson nearby. Witnesses
claim Mr Brown was shot in the head as he tried to flee.

Wilson is on leave amid fears he could face revenge attacks.

Many activists said they feared the decision to call in the National Guard could
escalate the seriousness of the clashes.

Rapper and St Louis native Nelly also spoke to marchers in a bid to ease the
tension.

"We've got to understand that we have options and stop choosing the reaction
option cause at the end of the day we're going to pay - our brothers are gonna
be the ones in jail," he said.

The rapper, best known for his 2002 number one 'Hot In Herre', had been heavily
criticised on social media in recent days for being of touch with what was
happening in Ferguson after he called on local people to 'calm down.'

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             800 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday

Washington: Is Modi Ready to Lead?

LENGTH: 1103  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Heritage Foundation has issued the following news release:

The new Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in India bodes well for the
country's future economic prospects as well as its role in global affairs. Prime
Minister Narendra Modi is seeking to erase his reputation as a communal leader
and to demonstrate he will rule the nation in a way that benefits all Indians,
not just the Hindu majority. Whether he will live up to his promises remains to
be seen, but so far he has struck the right chords. The optimism in India is
palpable.

With 282 parliamentary seats, the BJP surprised even its own party members to
become the first Indian party in 30 years to win a majority on its own. This
means the BJP will not have to rely on coalition partners to remain in power,
and instead be in a strong position to implement economic reforms and other
measures that could help restore investor confidence and improve the GDP growth
rate.

The new Modi-led government is expected to pursue a more robust foreign policy
than its Congress party predecessor and to enhance India's influence and
prestige on the global stage. The BJP Election Manifesto states that the party
"believes a resurgent India must get its rightful place in the comity of nations
and international institutions. The vision is to fundamentally reboot and
reorient the foreign policy goals...so that it leads to an economically stronger
India, and its voice is heard in the international fora."

Fresh leadership in New Delhi provides an opportunity for the U.S. and India to
reinvigorate ties and move forward with cooperation on economic, defence,
counterterrorism, maritime, and Asia-Pacific issues to name just a few. U.S.
President Barack Obama's early invitation to Modi to visit Washington and Modi's
positive response signals both sides' willingness to collaborate on future
projects and to move past the 2002 Gujarat riots.

The U.S. had revoked Modi's tourist visa in 2005 on grounds that he could have
done more in his position as Gujarat Chief Minister to stop the rioting. The
riots, which left nearly 1,000 Muslims dead, followed an incident in which a
group of Muslims allegedly set fire to a train carrying Hindu pilgrims destined
for Ahmedabad, while it passed through the town of Godhra. Modi allowed funeral
processions in the streets of Ahmedabad the next day and the state government
failed to control Hindu mobs that went on a systematic rampage murdering
Muslims.
Communal Agenda Worries Religious Minorities

Prime Minister Modi has made an effort to try to repair his reputation as a
hardline, communal politician. He stayed away from divisive rhetoric and
communal politics during the election campaign, and in his first speech to the
Indian parliament on 11 June 2014, acknowledged that India's Muslims lagged the
rest of the nation in socio-economic terms and noted the importance of
addressing this challenge. He said, "If one organ of the body remains weak, the
body cannot be termed as healthy...We are committed to this...We don't see it as
appeasement."

In the past, the BJP has supported policy positions considered divisive by the
Muslim minority community. These include support for the construction of a Hindu
temple at Ayodhya, where a mosque was destroyed by Hindus in 1992; the
establishment of a uniform civil code, rather than allowing Muslims to maintain
certain personal laws based on religious custom; and repeal of Article 370 of
the Indian Constitution, which provides the state of Jammu and Kashmir special
autonomous status.

Christians, numbering about 25 million in India, have also faced harassment and
violent attacks by organisations following a hindutva (Hindu religious and
cultural nationalism) agenda. Christians feel especially vulnerable in states
that have adopted anti-conversion laws. The anti-conversion laws are aimed at
preventing "forced conversion" but have been misused by Hindu zealots to harass
Christians and to legitimise mob violence.

Hindus would like access to Ayodhya, as they believe it to be the birthplace of
the Hindu God Ram, where a prominent Hindu temple (the Ram Temple) once existed.
It remains to be seen to what degree the BJP might focus on trying to rebuild
the Ram Temple.

In 1992, BJP leader L. K. Advani led a protest march to the Babri Mosque at
Ayodhya that resulted in its destruction by Hindu zealots and ensuing communal
riots that killed nearly 2,000. In September 2010, a high court in India ruled
that the land at Ayodhya be divided into three segments: one-third for the
reconstruction of the Ram Temple; one-third for the Islamic Sunni Waqf Board;
and one-third for another Hindu group. The 2014 BJP Manifesto expresses support
for rebuilding the Ram Temple within the confines of the Indian constitution.

The BJP did not pursue most of these controversial issues when it held power
previously (1998 - 2004), mainly because it lacked support from its coalition
partners. Even though the BJP now holds a majority on its own, it's still
doubtful Modi will prioritise a Hindutva agenda. He knows doing so will cost him
support at home and abroad, undermining his goals of building a strong and
prosperous India with a positive global image.
Prioritising Regional Relations

Modi has shown he is ready to turn a new page with Pakistan. In an unprecedented
move, he invited all South Asia leaders, including Pakistani Prime Minister
Nawaz Sharif, to his swearing-in ceremony. This was the first time in history an
Indian or Pakistani leader had attended an oath-taking ceremony of the other.

Modi has some work to do with regard to shoring up confidence with neighboring
Bangladesh. During campaigning in the Indian state of Assam, Modi railed against
Bangladeshi migrants, who cross the border into India to flee endemic poverty in
their own country. The rhetoric was aimed at garnering votes from the Assamese,
who are concerned about being outnumbered as a result of the Bangladeshi
migration. But it also angered Bangladeshis and led Dhaka to question whether
Indo-Bangladeshi ties would be as strong under the new Indian administration.
Cautious Optimism

While it is early days for the new Indian government, so far the signs are good
that it will pursue policies beneficial for the Indian economy and that will
enhance India's international role. Still, the U.S. and European countries
should engage India on religious freedom issues to ensure that Modi follows
through on his promises to meet the needs of all Indian citizens and stays away
from controversial policies supported by hardliners within his party.

For more information please visit: http://www.heritage.org

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             801 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Frances riots Lessons for U.S. immigration reform

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 724  words


It is disingenuous of a segment of American commentators to use the riots in
France as one more occasion for French-bashing and triumphalist economic theory
of the sort summed up in a Wall Street Journal headline Tuesday Why they riot in
Paris, but not in New York. Memories should not be so shallow. From the Atlanta
race riot of 1906 to the labor riots of the 1920s to the Los Angeles Zoot Suit
riots in 1943 (between servicemen and Mexican immigrants) to the ravaging race
riots of the 1960s in New York, Jersey City, Newark, Chicago, San Francisco,
Philadelphia, Detroit and several other major cities, to the New York City
blackout riot of 1977 (when the citys electricity blew out) to the Miami and
Tampa riots of 1989 and the Los Angeles riots of 1992 and thats just a selective
list its been a century of riots. Theres no room for self-righteousness or
gloating. Theres plenty of room for learning from French errors and remembering
what helped diminish the risk of civil insurrections at home. Admittedly, the
French have only themselves to blame for the violence in their streets. Without
excusing a single act of civil disturbance, its clear that Frances relationship
with its largely Arab and North African immigrants is a miserable failure
wrought by years of indifference, segregation and blind eyes to immigrants
economic and social disaffection from French society. Back in the 1950s and
1960s, when France was enjoying its share of Europes economic miracle,
immigrants were invited in, especially from former colonies, and given work the
French didnt want to do. But they were never welcomed into French society as
equal members of French culture and politics. The immigrant experience in France
was similar to the black experience in the United States, up to and including a
legacy of slavery: The French can always say that they never had slavery within
their borders, but they only abolished slavery in some of their colonies five
years before the United States did in the South. The 1970s brought an economic
slowdown, but not a concurrent slow-down in immigration from the Middle East and
Africa. Immigrants piled up in city suburbs, Paris northeast banlieu especially
projects writ large, and as architecturally grim concrete jungles. Warnings of a
social time-bomb began spreading, provoking what the French do very well: talk,
books, conferences, promises. In 1995, the French-born filmmaker Mathieu
Kassovitz released a movie called Hate (La haine), depicting suburbs of
violence, drugs, sex and desperation. He closed the movie with the story of the
man falling from a high-rise and thinking, half-way down, that all is well. Last
month, the body hit the pavement. Immigrants it brought here in chains aside,
Americas immigrant experience is far more hopeful, not least because this is a
nation of immigrants. Its never been perfect. Riots here have had the same roots
as those in France: When swaths of the population feel excluded, they eventually
rebel. The acts may be inexcusable. The causes should never so easily be judged,
or dismissed. The relative calm since the 1970s may be deceptive. Immigrants
continue to pour in, and for those with a measure of affluence, assimilation
continues to be easiest. But America continues to ignore its biggest immigration
problem pretty much the way the French did theirs. The United States
acknowledges that there are now up to 10 million illegal immigrants in the
country, mostly from Mexico and Latin America, but does nothing about it. In a
vast country with long borders, the problem is more diffuse. But no one
traveling along the southern border with Mexico can call the culture of
improvised ghetto towns (colonias) on the American side of the border either a
minor or a diffuse problem. There, too, time-bombs are ticking. President Bushs
proposed solution is a guest-worker program giving illegal immigrants a measure
of recognition, but with a built-in time limit on U.S. residency. Thats not a
program built around integration. Its a repeat of the French method of the 1950s
and 1960s. Theresult likely wont be dissimilar from the one unfolding in France
today. Immigration has been Americas saving grace because of the emphasis on
integration and opportunity. It will remain a saving grace only if that emphasis
tags along this century, as it did the last two.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Uncaptioned photo of rioter

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2005 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2005 News-Journal Corporation


                             802 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                                 July 28, 2014

Ukraine govt forces move in on "the Devil's" Donetsk stronghold of Gorlivka

LENGTH: 1058  words


In the evening of July 27, Gorlivka, an industrial town of around 250,000 about
an hour's drive from the city of Donetsk, was shuddering as Ukrainian government
forces launched an attempt to recapture it from Russian-backed separatist
rebels, who had seized control of key administrative building in the city in
late April. bne spent the preceding night with rank-and-file rebels at the
police headquarters and other locations in an attempt to understand rebel
thinking.

The Donetsk regional health department confirmed 13 civilians killed from the
goverment assault, mostly apparently by shelling, including two children. A
Ukrainian Pravda reporter in the town put casualties as high as 20-30, while
Interfax Ukraine reported that Ukraine's air force had bombed the municipal
police department, one of the rebels' main hideouts. Andriy Lysenko,
spokesperson for Ukraine's security council, confirmed on the afternoon of July
27 that Ukrainian forces were moving into the outskirts of Gorlivka.

The attack on Gorlivka has special significance for Ukraine's "anti-terror
operation" and internationally because the commander of the town's rebel forces
is Russian national Igor Besler, nicknamed "Devil." Ukraine's security service,
the SBU, has accused Besler of being the commander of the unit that launched the
surface-to-air missile that brought down Malaysian Airlines flight MH17 on July
17, with the loss of all 298 on board. The incident has sparked a major
international crisis and far-reaching sanctions against Russia by the US and EU,
who believe that Russia supplied Besler with the missile system involved.

Gorliva also has particular significance in the Donbass region of eastern
Ukraine since it is home to Ukraine's largest chemicals plant, the fertiliser
producer Stirol. Fears are running high that any Ukrainian attack could trigger
a major catastrophe at the plant, which has already been hit by one shell.
"[Ukrainian President Petro] Poroschenko knows that any accident at Stirol would
wipe out Donbass civilisation, and enable the territory to be handed over on a
platter for shale gas drilling," one of Besler's lieutenants, bearing the
nom-de-guerre of "Boroda" (beard), told bne on the night of July 26, shortly
before the launch of the Ukrainian attack.

Kyiv has previously alleged that the rebels have themselves mined Stirol and any
explosion there would be their work.

"Boroda" who is head of the Gorlivka rebels' self-styled "NKVD" security
department - named after Stalin's notorious secret police - told bne that the
rebels would never pull out from Gorlivka as happened earlier in the rebel-held
towns of Slavyansk and Kramatorsk. "There will be no retreat from Gorlovka, we
will fight to the end," he said.

Local heroes?

Despite the looming assault by government forces, there was little sign of panic
among the rank-and-file on the night of July 26. The rebels on site - who
appeared to be mainly tasked with maintaining order in the town rather than
active combat duty - underlined their ideals, expressing dismay that western
journalists have named them terrorists and/or mercenaries.

"We're fighting to defend our country against occupation," says one of the
fighters, none of whom were ready to reveal their identity, and who know each
other only by their nom-de-guerres. "We are fighting for our own little patch of
land and to protect our families." He says he is a policeman, as are many of his
comrades in the rebel movement. The local police force is believed to be one of
the main recruiting pools for rebels, with Donetsk policemen reported to have en
masse sworn allegiance to the self-styled Donetsk People's Republic.

A large number of former members of the "Berkut" riot police are also evident
among the rebels, identified by their original uniforms during a muster of
forces. Berkut were the main opposing force to mass pro-European demonstrations
in Kyiv and elsewhere in Ukraine that kicked off in December, which turned
violent with petrol bomb throwing and the ousting of former president Viktor
Yanuovych in February. "I can show you the burns on my legs I got as a result,"
one of the Berkut veterans tells bne.

"We are all from Gorlivka, no 'foreign mercenaries' here," another fighter
underscores, like many of the local Donbass rebels eager to dispel alleged
defamation of their movement in international media. He doesn't deny that there
are Russians fighting for the separatists, but says this is balanced by Poles
and other nationalities allegedly fighting on the Ukrainian side.

Every man is entitled to defend his native territory from foreign invaders, is a
popular refrain among the fighters. One cultural reference that recurs is Mel
Gibson's film "Brave Heart," the epic story of William Wallace's fight to free
Scotland in the 14th century. "The Ukrainian forces outnumber us 10 to 1, but
the difference is we are fighting for something we believe in - freedom -
whereas they don't know what they are fighting for." Another recurrent reference
among rebels is to the Russian nationalist film "Brat 2" of 2000, and its
protagonist's violent one-man anti-American campaign for a very Russian notion
of justice.

The rebel units that are recruited locally are largely a rag-tag bunch, ranging
from boys to middle-aged men who have mostly brought their own uniforms, lack
body armour and have little obvious weapons training. Despite their declared
readiness to die for their "country", it seems that their usual deployment is
maintaining order locally. It is evident that without strong backing from
Russian-provided and possibly manned artillery and anti-aircraft systems, they
would have little chance against Ukrainian forces that have the state and
international community behind them.

Nevertheless, many locals questioned say they know people who have joined the
rebels and some who have lost their lives in fighting against Kyiv. The apparent
readiness of the locals to die for their cause has been one of the big surprises
since the start of the Donbass uprising in late April, since many alleged
initially that the rebels were only in it for money.

"War, war" was the morning chant ringing through the police headquarters as this
reporter left at sunrise on July 27. It is unclear what casualties the reported
airstrikes has wreaked among the fighters.

Graham Stack in Gorlivka, Ukraine/bne


LOAD-DATE: August 01, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             804 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                                August 27, 2014

Ukraine reloaded: Poroshenko calls snap parliamentary elections for October -
bne

LENGTH: 1316  words


Graham Stack in Kyiv/bne

Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko has dissolved parliament and called snap
elections for October 26, in a move he says aims to "reload" Ukraine's political
elite. The move was widely anticipated and could help Poroshenko and his allies
in the Rada clear the political decks and move on with reforms.

The formal reason given by Poroshenko for dissolving parliament is that the
governing coalition collapsed July 24 and has not been replaced in the
subsequent 30-day period as required by the constitution. But this is widely
seen as a pretext that Poroshenko is using in agreement with his allies in
government in order to dissolve parliament: given that Ukraine is a
parliamentary-presidential constitution, the president does not have the power
to dissolve parliament on his own authority.

Poroshenko acknowledged in a statement published by his spokesman that the real
reason for the snap election was to "reload" politics, after the slide into
authoritarianism and corruption during the presidency of Viktor Yanukovych,
elected in February 2010 and ousted after mass protests in February 2014. The
presidency was reset by Poroshenko's own election, but the current Rada is a
throwback to the era of former president Viktor Yanukovych and for the new
government to complete the process of legitimisation it badly needs a new
mandate from the people.

"Opinion polls show that 80% of citizens support the need for pre-term
parliamentary elections. In fact this was was one of the main demands of the
'Revolution of Dignity' [the protests that ousted Yanuovych]," Poroshenko said.
"The current desire on the part of society for renewal of the political elite is
more than obvious."

"Elections are the best form of lustration," Poroshenko's statement continued,
"and the cleansing should start with the country's highest organ. The current
Verkhovna Rada for the last one and a half years was a bulwark of support for
Yanukovych. A majority of these deputies approved the 'dictatorship laws'
[repressive laws of January 16 that provoked violent protests] which cost the
lives of the 'heavenly hundred' [over 70 protestors in Kyiv shot dead by police
February 19-21]. For this they should bear responsibility - both political and
criminal."

"Not a few deputies (...) if they are not directly sponsors or accomplices of
the separatists-fighters, then they are at least their sympathisers. Even when
we wanted to declare mobilisation or declare [breakaway East Ukraine regions of]
Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic to be terrorist
organisations, we could hardly get together 232 votes," Poroshenko said. "And
where was the rest? It's no secret that there is a fifth column comprising
dozens of MPs. But they do not represent the interests of the country that
elected them. Is this something we can tolerate? Is this the way to win a war?"

October Revolution

According to bne sources in parliament, one group close to Poroshenko wanted to
hold elections a fortnight earlier: The current constitution specifies that
after a pre-term dissolution of parliament, fresh elections must be held "within
a period of 60 days," which it was argued might linguistically allow leeway for
a 45-day election campaign. The earlier date could have been preferred due to
the rapidly deteriorating economic situation that might already start impacting
voters' preferences by the end of October. But that would risk the elections
later being challenged in court for not observing the 60-day period rule, say
the sources.

Ukraine's current parliament was elected less than two years ago in October
2012, in elections that were deemed largely free and fair by international
observers, the EU and US, although Poroshenko in his address said they had been
fixed. Poroshenko's surge in support, evidenced by his landslide victory in the
first round of presidential elections in June, mean that pre-term elections will
provide him with his own power base in parliament, which he currently lacks, say
analysts. Ukraine reverted to a mixed parliamentary-presidential system on
February 22, with the government answering to parliament, making it essential
for Poroshenko to convert his high personal rating into seats in parliament to
avoid being sidelined politically. It is not yet clear whether he will lead his
current mini-party Solidarity into the campaign or try and create a broader
movement.

Political theorists of successful democratic revolutions, such as influential
former US ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul, have argued that it is essential
to hold fresh parliamentary elections soon after a new president comes to power
on the back of a revolution, in order to push out the old guard from
parliamentary positions where they can brake reforms, or benefit from popular
discontent at any hardship resulting from reforms. According to McFaul, it was
the failure of former Russian president Boris Yeltsin to dissolve parliament
immediately after the pro-Soviet August Putsch in Moscow, almost exactly 23
years ago, leading to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, that thwarthed his
subsequent reform programme. Similarly, the failure of former Ukrainian
president Viktor Yushchenko to call new parliamentary elections following the
Orange Revolution of December 2004 caused the revolution's democratic impetus to
peter out, McFaul has argued.

War politics

But holding parliamentary elections now means conducting an election campaign
while there is a war on, the outcome of which is still unclear. Analysts believe
the war might play to Poroshenko's advantage by prompting political unity under
his leadership: in his address on August 25 he called for the democratic forces
to go into elections as "a united pro-Ukrainian, pro-EU team."

Poroshenko also argued that the election campaign and a victorious military
campaign in East Ukraine would go hand in hand. "I regard victory in Donbass and
victory of the forces of the democratic reformers in the Verkhovna Rada as
mutually connected processes," said Poroshenko in his statement. He indicated
that he would only negotiate with representatives of Donbass who were returned
to the new parliament. "Pre-term elections are part of my peace plan, a key part
of which is political dialogue in Donbass. Only those people will represent
Donbass in dialogue who Donbass votes for in elections," Poroshenko said.

Tweeted nationalist commentator Oleksandr Aronets, after Poroshenko's
announcement: "Complete reloading of the government was one of our demands
during the Revolution of Dignity, and it was implemented just now. We have
everything we need for complete political lustration. We must choose responsibly
because the next parliament must implement vital reforms, otherwise we'll remain
a third world country."

The Batkyvschina party announced on their website in the wee hours of August 26
that current Prime Minister Arsenyi Yatsenyuk would remain with the party going
into the new election campaign. Media had previously reported that he was in
talks with Poroshenko to join Poroshenko's Solidarity party. Party leader and
founder of Batkyvschina is former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko, who ran
against Poroshenko in the presidential elections in June. Batkyvschina is
currently the largest party in parliament, with a number of representatives in
government besides Yatsenyuk, but its rating in opinion polls is languishing
under 10%.

The Radical Party of controversial populist MP Oleg Lyashko, a political
marginal until taking third place with 8% in presidential elections in June,
could now garner as much as 15-20% of the vote, according to some polls, despite
its being a largely skeletal party based on one personality. Lyashko has
featured prominently on the Inter TV channels owned by gas oligarch Dmitro
Firtash, and former chief of staff of Viktor Yanukovych, Serhiy Lyovochkin,
according to media pundits.


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             806 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                                January 11, 2016

Russia's meat culture beefs up its patriotic reputation

LENGTH: 937  words


In the shadow of Moscow's Christ the Saviour Cathedral, made famous by punk rock
band Pussy Riot's scandalous performance in 2012, a new revolution is cooking.
This time it's one that plays to Russia's increasing sense of national pride and
self-sufficiency - the Voronezh burger bar and meat restaurant, opened in
September, serves only prime cuts from the eponymous region, and not a golden
arch in sight.

The Tsarist-era building in one of the prime locations in the city has been
divided into three floors, each offering a different culinary experience, but
all heavy on meat and patriotism.

The first floor of the restaurant is a café style food bar, one step up from the
classic fast food format: punters are squeeze cheek by jowl on to long benches
to munch on quality burgers or giant sliced beef sandwiches made exclusively
from Black Angus beef farmed in the Voronezh region, located 470km south of the
capital.

At RUB290 ($3.80) for a cheeseburger (without fries), it matches a Big Mac combo
at McDonalds in price, but the quality of the meat is far superior.

"We opened in September and the place is always full," says Vladimir Zaitsev,
the manager. "We buy all the meat in Voronezh and it is exclusively Black Angus,
from a Russian company there called Prime Meat."

The second floor houses a more traditional Russian cuisine restaurant, and
Russian fare is pretty meat-heavy to begin with; shashlik, or kebabs of beef,
chicken and pork, feature at the centre of most menus in any good Russian
eaterie.

Finally the top floor of the building is a "meat club" for fine dining, a
increasingly popular Russian food concept that is an upmarket version of the
western steakhouse.

Battle for the bellies

McDonalds introduced Russia to the concept of fast food in 1990 with its iconic
Pushkin Square branch and fast food outlets have opened steadily since then. But
counter intuitively there was an explosion of new chains following the 2008
global crisis. Over the next two years most leading chains entered the Russian
market and invested heavily on rapid expansion.

KFC had one lonely branch in Moscow throughout the 1990s but in 2008 its owner
Yum! Brands parted with an reported $400mn to buy out Russian copycat Rosticks
and quickly rebranded all its restaurants with its Colonel Sanders logo.

Burger King also set up shop at the same time and has opened hundreds of
restaurants since, including its first Siberian branch in 2009, taking over the
much smaller Rusbuger in the process. And on a smaller scale Denny's, Dunkin'
Donuts, Chilli's and Shake Shack have all launched operations in Russia.

The chicken restaurant Rosticks was the only successful domestic fast food
chain, but even its outlets were almost exclusively found in Moscow. Former
mayor Yuri Luzhkov also tried to launch a patriotic pie chain serving the much
loved pirogi in the 1990s called Russkoe Bistro, but the chain never really got
off the ground.

'Voronezh' is the latest attempt establish a domestic fast food brand, but
unlike its predecessors it has two big advantages. The first is the surging wave
of nationalism that followed Russia's showdown with the West over Ukraine's fate
and created the marketing opportunity. Second is the Kremlin sanctions on
European agricultural goods that has created the business opportunity.

Russia has been self-sufficient in chicken since the 1990s following a trade
spat with the US, formerly the biggest exporter to Russia of frozen chicken,
known locally as "Bush's legs" after the former US president.

Pork production has been growing fast as producers rushed to capture as much
market share as they could before import duties on pork were nixed as part of
Russia's WTO accession in August 2012. Russia still has a pork deficit but
should be self-sufficient in about two years. Imports of pork have fallen from
about 1mn tonnes a year in 2012 to 200,000 tonnes expected to be shipped this
year.

But Russia is still badly trailing with beef production. In the depths of the
crisis following the collapse of the Soviet Union, unable to afford feed grain
farmers slaughtered their cattle, atrophying herds that took years to build up.

Investment into beef only really took off about three years ago when the state
targeted it as a strategic sector, by offering cheap loans and cutting profit
taxes to zero. Beef has become an a la mode investment in some circles; some
rich fund managers began to eschew equity investments, preferring to plump their
money into farms where they anticipated better and more stable returns. Charlie
Ryan, the founder of the UFG brokerage, and Florian Fenner, still the head of
UFG Asset Management, famously bought a large grain farm in Bryansk on the
border with Ukraine with part of the money they got from selling UFG to Deutsche
Bank just after the 2008 crisis started.

The Voronezh restaurant is not alone as the region's Black Angus beef can
increasingly be found at a growing number of other restaurants. Thanks to the
sanctions, the steaks at Chicago Prime, another very popular Moscow meat
specialist, no longer come from the US, but also from Voronezh.

And the latest addition to the long line of Alexei Novikov's up market
restaurants is called Farsh, or Minced Meat, which also specialises in Voronezh
beef dishes.

So far Voronezh has no immediately plans to open any more restaurants as the
company wants to see how the first one fares, says Zaitsev, but give the quality
of the burgers and the packed tables on a recent Sunday afternoon visit more
could be on the way soon.

            Russian meat production vs import deficit

             Russian meat production (all types)


LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             808 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                               February 11, 2016

More than half of Turkish businesses surveyed report no effect from Russian
sanctions

LENGTH: 207  words


Over half of Turkish businesses claim to be unaffected by recently imposed
Russian sanctions, a poll has found.

8,000 Turkish business were interviewed by the human resources website
Eleman.net about their company strategies for 2016. 52.2% of respondents said
that they remain unaffected by sanctions imposed by Russia following Turkey's
downing of a Russian military jet on November 24.

Russian sanctions on charter flights and tourist visits to Turkey are predicted
to leave a shortfall of 4.5mn visitors in 2016, or roughly 12% of the total 36mn
that visited in 2015.

This, combined with continuing civil unrest caused by violent confrontations
between Turkish armed forces and the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) as
well as a spate of suicide bombings, could have a marked effect on Turkey's
already negative current account, as tourism makes up 11% of Turkey's $800bn
economy.

The raft of sanctions from Russia also include a ban on a number of Turkish
exports including certain fruit and vegetables, and poultry. TUSES, an
Istanbul-based think-tank, calculates that the Russian sanctions could cost
Turkey as much as $11bn.

Data from various Russia-based sources suggest that Russian-Turkish trade fell
by nearly 25% in 2015 to $23bn.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             810 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                                 April 13, 2016

STOLYPIN: Russia's `Panamization' of politics

LENGTH: 1058  words


The `Panama Papers' revealed much about the cynical world of international tax
evasion, capital flight and money laundering. But did they tell us much about
Russia? In themselves, not really - but what they have done is help us to
understand some central truths about politics in Vladimir Putin's Russia.

The initial accounts focused on "Putin's billions", the $2bn held largely
through cellist (and presidential chum) Sergei Roldugin. While Putin's name was
on none of the documents, it is impossible not to see his fingerprints on them.
However, for all the excitable headlines, there was much less to this story than
at first met the eye. First of all, while it provides all kinds of granular
details as to how embezzled and "donated" money - if you hand a traffic cop a
5,000 ruble note it is a bribe, it seems, but if you hand over $500,000,000 it's
a "donation" or an "unsecured, unredeemed loan" - is moved and stored, this
should not come as a surprise. It certainly didn't to anyone in Moscow. The
thought that the rich and powerful are also corrupt kleptocrats fails to amaze.

Besides which, what was described was hardly unique to Putin's Russia, but
instead fits a pattern visible across post-Soviet Eurasia and beyond, from
Africa to Asia, Latin America to the Middle East. In an age of globalized
finance, offshore havens and complex financial instruments, inevitably the 21st
century kleptocrat has moved on from the suitcase of banknotes secreted in a
Swiss vault.

Secondly, "Putin's billions" were probably not Putin's, as such. For a man who
seems unlikely to be contemplating a post-presidential life, and who can use the
fortunes of the country's oligarchs or the assets of the state as his piggy
banks, stashing away another hundred million somewhere seems rather pointless.
Instead, these funds are best seen as both the collective assets of a group of
powerful figures - if they were Russian gangsters, we'd call it their obshchak,
their common slush fund - and also the product of wider processes whereby power
is gained and consolidated.

Power, after all, is the true currency of Russia. Patrons offer clients and
allies the opportunities to make money, from contracts ripe for embezzlement to
rent-seeking opportunities, in return for favours and loyalty. Tribute the
clients may pay to those above them are welcome, but often simply reinvested in
buying more clients and allies, more power.

"Following the money" is thus also a way of following the power, what really
matters. This way, we can understand some recent developments in Russia at least
partly in terms of the economy of authority rather than their overt
justification.

Negotiable loyalty and conditional patronage

One aspect of Putin's surprise decision to create a standalone National Guard
that has largely been neglected, for example, is the transfer to the new agency,
along with the Interior Ministry's riot cops and security troops, of FGUP
Okhrana (the Federal State Unitary Enterprise `Guard').

Okhrana was the commercial private security provider of the Ministry of Internal
Affairs (MVD), which rented out the service of police officers from the
so-called Extradepartmental Guard (Vnevedomstvennaya okhrana). Okhrana was a
generator of income for the ministry. Although in 2014 and 2015 its net profits
had been falling slightly, it was still making a little under a billion rubles,
or a little over $15mn at today's rates. While only a small fraction of the
MVD's trillion-ruble budget, at a time of cuts - last year it had to absorb a
10% reduction - it represented a convenient extra revenue stream that, unlike
the federal budget allocation, was not restricted to specific uses. In any case,
these profits represented only a small portion of the total incomes. Local
commands in the cities and regions would also get their cut, and individual
officers could supplement their household incomes through moonlighting for
Okhrana.

Transferring the corporation to the National Guard not only impoverishes the MVD
and provides extra resources to the new agency, it also offers newly promoted
National Guard chief Viktor Zolotov the means to build and develop his personal
client base through promising and granting access to Okhrana's budgets, and also
the opportunity to use the agency as a virtual state-sanctioned protection
racket.

Zolotov, once head of Putin's security and then a first deputy interior
minister, has after all never been his own master. Now, as the head of a federal
agency directly reporting to the Kremlin, he for the first time has the real
opportunity to build his own power base. Okhrana gives him the wherewithal to
buy one.

In a different way, the transfer to Grozny's control of petrochemicals company
Chechenneftekhimprom is best understood as a way of compensating Chechen leader
Ramzan Kadyrov for a likely reduction in the headline federal budget subsidy
this year. This allows him to continue to maintain his own position by buying
off his cronies, and also is intended to maintain and reaffirm his loyalty to
Moscow.

Finally, consider this year's proposed privatizations. Public statements and
offer prospectuses notwithstanding, this is nothing to do with refilling the
public purse, furthering business efficiency or making a statement about a
commitment to the market. Rather, this is a way of rewarding members of the
crony capitalist elite for their loyalty, compensating them for losses suffered
from sanctions and diverting any disquiets about the direction of policy. Money
will be made by the state, yes, but it is unlikely that these deals will really
be economically significant, not least given the lack of foreign bidders.
Rather, as ever, the money is symbolic of the flows of power and obedience.

Machiavelli once wrote that, "gold will not always get you good soldiers, but
good soldiers will always get you gold". In today's Russia, as the `Panama
Papers' show, while money will not always get you power, power will always get
you money - and the important relationships are all about negotiable loyalty and
conditional patronage.

Mark Galeotti is Professor of Global Affairs at the SPS Center for Global
Affairs, New York University and a Visiting Fellow with the European Council on
Foreign Relations. He writes the blog In Moscow's Shadows
(http://inmoscowsshadows.wordpress.com/) and tweets as @MarkGaleotti.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             812 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Romania Today

                            April 28, 2016 Thursday

Refugee crisis worsens press freedom conditions in Southeast Europe

LENGTH: 678  words


Violence and the refugee crisis dominated the news in Europe in 2015, but they
also affected how news could be covered, Washington-based human rights and media
watchdog Freedom House said in its "Freedom of the Press 2016" report.

The report assigns a score to each country that determines the level of
restrictions to press freedom; higher scores indicate harsher conditions for the
press.

While not as dramatic as the Charlie Hebdo murders, attacks against journalists
by various perpetrators in the Western Balkans contributed to an overall decline
in media freedom to "its lowest point in 12 years in 2015", according to Freedom
House.

Serbia was the worst performer last year in press freedom and saw the biggest
press freedom score decline in the Southeast Europe (SEE) region. The worsening
was put down to the government of Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic's hostile
rhetoric toward investigative journalists, reported censorship of journalists
and media outlets, and a decrease in the availability of critical, independent
reporting, said Freedom House. In Serbia, multiple journalists suffered physical
assaults, contributing to heightened self-censorship across the media sector.

Serbia ranked in 87th place among 199 countries in the 2016 press freedom index,

 while Croatia was at 84th and Montenegro at 80th.

Attacks and death threats in Macedonia and Bosnia & Herzegovina also raised
concerns, with numerous violations committed against reporters who were
investigating government corruption, said Freedom House, adding that serious
questions remain about whether these countries' governments are genuine in their
stated commitments to European norms for media freedom and independence.

Macedonia, which was ranked at 136th among 199 countries, was the only "not
free" country in the SEE region while the press was "partly free" in all other
countries in the region. Albania had the worst press freedom conditions after
Macedonia in the region and ranked at 106th, followed by Bosnia (104th) and
Kosovo (96th).

The massive influx of migrants to Europe indirectly resulted in a variety of
limitations on journalistic freedom, according to Freedom House. The most
prominent case was in Hungary, where police attacked at least seven foreign
journalists who were attempting to report on violent clashes between riot
officers and migrants arriving at the country's southern border. The authorities
took other steps to limit journalists' access to sites related to migrants and
refugees, and the public media supported the government's hostile stance toward
them, said Freedom House.

Hungary and Bulgaria were ranked in 78th joint place, followed by Romania
(74th). Slovenia had the best press freedom conditions and was ranked at 33rd
place.

Earlier this month, Freedom House released its democracy index for 2016 in a
report titled "Nations in Transit". In line with the generally gloomy picture
across the transition countries, most countries in SEE moved further away from
democracy in the last year.

For the sixth year running, democracy in the Balkan region has declined, with
almost all the EU candidate and potential candidate countries in the region
backsliding during this period. Macedonia saw the worst regression in 2015.

The region's average Democracy Score assigned by the influential NGO is now the
same as it was in 2010, which is "a disturbing indicator of [the Balkan
countries'] level of commitment to EU standards", the April 12 report said. In
both the Balkans and Central Europe, "illiberal leaders and strongmen challenged
fundamental principles of democracy".

The poor showing for the Balkan region comes amid a "grim portrait of decline"
across transition countries, where no region has improved since 2011. However,
while the average democracy score across the entire region has declined for 12
years in a row, this is a relatively recent phenomenon in the Balkans.

"The Balkans were once a bright spot for reform in Europe, but since 2010 the
region has backslid, even as several countries have made progress in accession
to the EU," the report said.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             813 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Russia Today

                              May 27, 2016 Friday

Claustrophobia - a Russian company on a quest

LENGTH: 996  words


The first challenge in playing a Claustrophobia adventure game is to find the
entrance to the venue. In the square behind a block of flats across the river
from Gorky Park in central Moscow, a door stands next to the children's
playground. There is no building attached to the door; only a small brick block
as the door leads down into a bunker under the playground. It is one of more
than a dozen Claustrophobia venues scattered around Moscow, recognisable only by
the company's key-like logo that is discretely displayed on the door. Most are
housed in apartment buildings, with a few in run-down industrial lots. This
particular one leads to a mocked-up sewer that is home to a Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles adventure.

In early May, Afisha Daily, Russia's main entertainment online magazine,
published a list of Moscow's 21 best quest games, eight of which are run by
Claustrophobia, the leader of a new and rapidly developing segment of the
entertainment industry.

Just a few years ago, this kind of entertainment was unheard of in Russia. But
today, despite the troubled economy, people are flocking to to part with a few
thousand rubles to play these quest games - similar to the "American Horror
Story" television series. You have to book and pay in advance, and getting an
hour-long slot can be hard because of the high demand.

Arriving at the bottom of the stairs, you are met by the `keeper' who makes you
empty out your pockets into a locker. Phones in particular are strictly banned,
as the company doesn't want punters sharing the solutions on the internet to the
string of problems that you have to solve to negotiate the course over the next
hour.

We are a group of five, one adult and four small boys, and the keeper takes us
down the black, bare corridor and lets us into a small room with a cage grill on
one side leading into the second room. The clock has started to tick and we have
60 minutes to work out how to rescue a hologram of April, the heroine of the
story, from her chains in the last room. There are various logic problems, codes
to break, locks to pick and secret keys or buttons to discover in the course of
getting to the end of the adventure. It is a lot of fun.

A new quest

The company was set up by Russian Bogdan Kravtsov, who arrived at the idea for
the company totally at random. "I was riding a commuter train and was making up
some stuff to occupy my mind," he tells bne IntelliNews in an exclusive
interview. The stuff he was making up evolved into the concept for a quest game.

Curious, Kravtsov decided to find out if anyone else had already set up a quest
game and it turned out that there was no entertainment of that kind in Russia,
although quest games were already popular in other former Comecon countries like
Hungary. "Surprisingly, Budapest was the capital of quest games," Kravtsov says,
explaining that 20 companies are running 40 quest games of various complexity.

Kravtsov spent some time exploring Budapest's quest game scene and decided to
take the idea back to Russia, with some tweaks. "Quest games that I took part in
didn't have a special atmosphere, you just resolved one problem after another,"
he says. "We're offering more serious problems and we also have some unexpected
stuff. They don't have things like playing the piano to get a cue. They're doing
it in a more simple and cheap way."

With no competition, the business opportunity was obvious, but the trick was to
get the concept right. "Just copying what others were doing wasn't enough for
us," says Kravtsov. "From the outset, we were focused on realism of the
environment, attention to details and maximum immersion in a game."

Each Claustrophobia game has a theme. Other courses we explored were based on
the story of the movie "Aliens" and "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy", but
not all the themes are related to movies. The hardest course we have attempted
so far - there are three levels of course from easy to hard - was a game where
you had to escape from the office of a dictator before the people riot and
overthrow the government.

And the courses are pretty high tech. There are interactive computer screens,
specially made equipment making use of light and sound, and even keys disguised
as doorknobs. A lot of thought and effort has gone into creating ingenious clues
and problems. According to Kravtsov, the initial investment was just RUB1.5mn
($22,600). "Subsequent funding came as reinvestment of profits," he says. "More
recently, we invested more than RUB15mn ($226,000) in the development of the web
site and IT infrastructure alone."

Claustrophobia has proven to be enormously successful and Kravtsov has rapidly
expanded using a franchise model; collectively the company is running 153 quest
game rooms in 11 countries, including Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and the
US. Just five of them are operated by the company directly, with two more being
set up now, while the remainder are run on a franchise basis. Claustrophobia
won't disclose its financial results, but "the company is profitable",
Kartintsev says.

The crisis has not hurt business at all. Incomes are falling, but Russia had
such a comparatively high income level that the 10% drop in salaries seen since
December 2014 has done little than squeeze most of the middle class and most can
still afford to spend a few thousand rubles for an entertaining afternoon. "We
basically launched during the downturn, and the company's most rapid growth
coincided with the time when the economy bottomed out," says Kravtsov.

He adds that Claustrophobia hasn't taken any specific steps to adapt to the
recession environment. Moreover, the company projects expansion and growth.
"Before the end of this year the number of quest game rooms in Russia is
supposed to hit 200, while that figure abroad should reach 100," Kravtsov says.
"Our goal is to remain the world leader in terms of the number and quality of
quest games. We also plan to enter the markets of Latin America and China."


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             814 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                                  May 30, 2016

STOLYPIN: Russia's pessimism paradox

LENGTH: 1266  words


Objectively, Russia's current economic problems are nothing like the crisis of
2008. But politically, what matters are not the facts but the feelings, and
subjectively Russians are feeling distinctly pessimistic. Prime Minister Dmitry
Medvedev's recent and incautious admission that "there is no money" was not
necessarily accurate (there appears to be enough for continued military
modernisation and a bridge to Crimea), but it put him in the uncharacteristic
and, for him, uncomfortable position of one speaking for the Russian people.

Quite how to assess the political implications, though, is rather harder. For
one thing, although the assumption is generally that misery means militancy, in
practice this is less clear-cut. It tends to lead to labour unrest and the like,
to be sure, but outright political upheavals tend rather to be the product of
thwarted expectations - a people who thought that they were heading to sunlit
uplands but resent being led into yet another gloomy mine.

Of course, the alternative is that the state itself forces the issue, and
Russian history offers ample examples. The crash industrialisation of the late
19th century saw terrible conditions for the urban working poor. Many of the
factories were owned by the state or state functionaries, though, and when the
workers protested, they were often regarded not as simply seeking better
conditions but as outright traitors. The consequent repressions helped ensure
the emerging working class considered the state its enemy. Most dramatically,
1905's "Bloody Sunday", when soldiers fired on a peaceful march hoping to
present a loyal petition to the tsar, triggered the "1905 Revolution" - a
nationwide wave of violent local unrest, and arguably a precursor to the tsarist
collapse in 1917.

Two key questions thus arise: do Russians feels sufficiently "robbed" that their
current hardships can generate political discontent? And is the Kremlin likely
to do anything to precipitate that process?

Practical concerns

Times are bad for most Russians. Real incomes fell by 7.1% in April, according
to Rosstat, the worst drop for almost a year. In the monocities dominated by a
single enterprise and its ancillaries, unemployment is rising, and even where
jobs seem safe, payments are increasingly often in arrears. For the first time
since 2008, the proportion of incomes going on food has exceeded 50%. (Though
not everyone is feeling the pinch: RBC looked at executive incomes in 15 major
companies and found they had risen on average 10-13% since 2013.)

People are unsurprisingly dismayed, depressed. According to the pollster Levada
Center, 82% of Russians see Russia as in crisis, however much the government
promises improvement just over the horizon. Competing reform plans being laid
before the throne may offer some prospect of improvement, but in the short term
offer little to ordinary Russians, for that matter. Besides, it is not just that
incomes are falling, but that cuts in public services made a year ago are really
beginning to bite, and predatory, petty corruption of the sort that had been in
decline (in contrast with the enthusiastic embezzlement of the kleptocratic
elite) is back.

As a result, labour protests were up 40% in 2015, and provisional figures from
the first quarter of 2016 suggest an even greater rise this year. However, this
is at present little more than grit in the cogs of the Russian machine, and
offers little prospect of being mobilised for systemic, anti-regime reasons.

First of all, in many case the protesters - much like the those marching in 1905
- see the monarch as the solution rather than the problem. They are hoping
Putin, or one of his vicars on earth, will step in to remonstrate with corrupt
officials, force selfish bosses to pay up, or push money or contracts their way.
This is not just a traditional position, it is one Putin himself has assiduously
encouraged, and even if he is less prone to travel around his lands these days
and has less largesse to distribute, there is still enough to settle many of the
more serious protests.

Furthermore, there is a marked lack of any of the agencies which might unite and
mobilise what are essentially scattered, ad hoc and self-interested efforts to
address specific issues. There is no meaningful, independent trade union
movement. Although there are some intriguing signs of life at the base of the
Communist Party, in the main it has accepted its role as fake opposition. The
kinds of political oppositionists who did manage to tap into labour discontent
in the last years of the Soviet Union would quickly be identified, isolated and
if need be incarcerated. The FSB and the Interior Ministry's E Sections (E for
Extremism) are ready and waiting for any wannabe Walesas.

In short, there seems from the regime's point of view at present to be the right
mix of pessimism about the future, but cautious optimism that playing the game
might induce the Kremlin to respond to your problems, even at the expense of
everyone else's.

Political blunders

Barring some dramatic worsening of the situation, the real risk is that the
state does something to turn the scattered unhappiness into outright opposition.
So far, it has been relatively deft in most cases, buying off what they could
not outwait. However, the September Duma elections and 2018 presidential contest
necessarily require a degree of mobilisation. The outcomes of neither are in
doubt, but as they are primarily rituals of legitimation, Putin needs not just
to win, but to win with a large turnout. Thus, just at the time pragmatism might
indicate the value of a hopeless and apathetic population, politics demands
mobilisation - and all mobilisations carry with them the potential for a loss of
control.

The creation of the National Guard implies also that a degree of worry, even
paranoia is being experienced in the Kremlin, disproportionate with the
situation on the ground. Even if this does not lead to any heavy-handed
overreactions, one aspect of the new Natsgvardiya that has been overlooked by
many is its local reach. The core of the force are the former Interior Troops of
the Interior Ministry, but by adding to them the OMON riot police and SOBR armed
response teams, the Kremlin has ensured that it has a presence in many towns
which do not in themselves merit an Interior Troop garrison. They now no longer
report to the local chief of police (who typically has an incentive in working
with the town government and population), but to Moscow.

A local commander, working perhaps on what he thinks the Kremlin would want to
see rather than specific orders, might take matters into his own hands, with
potentially devastating implications.

Here, then, is the irony: the Russian people are pessimistic, but apparently too
pessimistic to think positive change is, at least for the moment, possible;
while at the same time not so pessimistic as to think they have no option but to
protest and resist. It may be that the real problem is a pessimism within the
Kremlin and its defenders, who as a result will over-estimate the risks they
face and as a result be tempted into dangerously counterproductive
over-reaction. 1905 was, after all, rooted in timeless human stupidities rather
than anything else, and devastatingly quickly turned cautious optimism into
reckless anger.

Mark Galeotti is Professor of Global Affairs at the SPS Center for Global
Affairs, New York University and a Visiting Fellow with the European Council on
Foreign Relations. He writes the blog In Moscow's Shadows
(http://inmoscowsshadows.wordpress.com/) and tweets as @MarkGaleotti.


LOAD-DATE: June 03, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             816 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Russia Today

                             June 8, 2016 Wednesday

Russians can't get enough of homegrown Primebeef

LENGTH: 2547  words


Voronezh is in the heartland of Russia's agricultural regions. Just two hours
from the Ukrainian border, the countryside runs a luxuriant green across
Russia's famous black earth farmland. This is the most fertile soil on the
planet and home to Primebeef's prolific herd of Black Angus bulls, one of the
largest in the world.

Russian-born Ilya Nitsenko was working in real estate and finance in New York
when his father Sergei called him in 2008 and asked him to organise a trip to
Nebraska to look at cattle. Nitsenko Snr had hit on the idea of supplying Russia
with high-quality beef, as it simply didn't exist in Russia, but to do so meant
building an entire production chain from feed corn to steak houses and burger
bars. Within months, Ilya had abandoned his New York life and shipped 240 of
Nebraska's finest pure breed Black Angus cattle back to Voronezh to start his
family's own herd. "The call came out of the blue, but I set it up and then
slowly got pulled into the whole project," Nitsenko tells bne IntelliNews in an
exclusive interview.

The timing was perfect. The Nitsenko family business began making a name for
itself as the producer of the best steaks in Russia and couldn't keep up with
demand. Then sanctions swept away what competition there was from the market.
Finally, the sharp depreciation of the ruble in December 2014 meant that any
competitors who wanted to get into the high-end beef market would find it hard,
as it became very expensive to import quality cattle.

Beef used to make up 70% of the Soviet meat diet. But the meat production was a
by-product of the communist drive to ensure every citizen had enough milk. Every
region had several milk farms and when the cows grew too old and stopped
producing milk, they were slaughtered and their meat was sold off cheaply.
Following the 1991 collapse of the USSR, farms could no longer afford to feed
their cattle and slaughtered them to raise cash to keep the collective farms
going during those difficult years. Today, beef still makes up only 22% of the
total meat consumed and Russia has been a net importer of beef for nearly two
decades.

That is starting to change with the Nitsenkos' Primebeef, which is part of the
family's Zarechnoe agricultural holding. The 250 bulls imported from Nebraska
were used to seed the herd and today there are more than 60,000 head of cattle
on eight ranges in the Voronezh and neighbouring Kaluga regions.

The stocky Black Angus bulls were originally a hardy Scottish breed and produce
what is regarded by many as the finest steaks in the world, after wagyu beef
from Kobe in Japan. In Moscow, Primebeef's steaks are already famous. The
restaurant that the Nitsenkos opened in the capital together with
lawyer-cum-restaurateur Alexander Rappaport only serves Voronezh Black Angus
steaks, and to fine effect: the eatery is constantly booked out for weeks in
advance, and the company is now snapping at the heels of the city's top-end
establishments.

Raising the steaks

Sergei Nitsenko made his first money in the 1990s in retail and real estate, and
brought his two sons in to help run Primebeef. Andrei runs the restaurant in
Moscow, while Ilya is in Voronezh and in charge of the production and
development of the business.

The company is unusual as a meat producer in many ways. In the West, few combine

 all the stages from field to plate, as the scale of operations is too big and
there are large risks at every stage of the business. It makes more sense for
smaller companies to specialise in each stage. But as Russia's beef industry was
basically non-existent when Nitsenko started, he had to start big and build a
meat production from top to bottom. "My dad had to bash down doors to get this
project going, but now we have great support from the regional governors in
Kaluga and Voronezh, as well as support from the federal government," Ilya
Nitsenko tells bne IntelliNews.

Nitsenko Snr invested his own cash to get the cattle farm going, but Ilya says
it would not have been possible to build it up to the current size without state
support. Since the showdown with the West over the fate of Ukraine started in
2014, Russia is now pushing as hard as it can to be self sufficient in as many
basic products as possible. The country already produces so much chicken that it
has recently started to export, and it is close to self-sufficiency in pork. But
as beef is the hardest animal product to develop - largely because cows have a
much longer gestation period than chickens and pigs - Russia is still several
years away from being self-sufficient in this category.

The state has been pouring money into setting up giant farms and providing
entrepreneurs with subsidised loans to help the sector along. Among other
measures, farms don't have to pay taxes on profit. "The subsidies make it
possible, but the trouble with subsidies is you don't know for sure if you are
going to get them. And they don't cover things like investment into equipment,
and that runs into the tens of millions of dollars," says Nitsenko.

All in all, the Nitsenko family has invested a total of RUB12bn ($400mn at
today's exchange rate) into the Primebeef project, of which a quarter was spent
on the processing plant, a quarter on developing feed and associated farming,
and the rest on the herd.

Nitsenko says the company is still in the investment phase, but it has stopped
expanding and is now focusing on efficiency. The processing plant slaughters
some 36,500 cattle a year, or a little over half of the total head count, but
the company wants to increase this number from 30 bulls an hour to 50 to improve
profitability. "We don't want more land or farms, but we need to increase
productivity further. Once the numbers are up we can process more meat," says
Nitsenko.

So far, most of the investment has been organised using Russian bank loans, but
Nitsenko says the company remains open to the possibility of an IPO or more
likely bringing in a strategic partner. "We are not looking for stupid money, as
that only brings stupid problems. We are more open to a private placement with a
strategic investor as that is the nature of any business," he explains. "Our
goal is not just to make money, but to create a lasting business that will
evolve with the market. There is so much still left to do as there is so much
opportunity in the market."

Four pillars of beef

There are four pillars to raising beef: genetics, breeding, feeding and farming.
In developed markets, beef is produced by a complex of many interlocking
businesses. No producer takes on more than two of these aspects, as together
they are costly and risky. For example, if a bull misses even one day of
feeding, then its quality drops dramatically, says Nitsenko.

Likewise, running a farm, especially a big one, is a hugely complicated task. In
the US there are three beef-producing market leaders, but none of them raise
their own cattle; over half of the bulls that go into their processing system
come from herds that have fewer than 100 head of cattle. In this context,
Primebeef's 60,000-strong herd is extremely unusual and one of the biggest herds
in the world. "In other markets you have a well-developed system and it is easy
to source any aspect from hundreds of companies that already exist. In Russia we
had none of that, so we had to build everything from scratch," says Nitsenko.

The whole project kicked off with the establishment of the genetics firm in
Kaluga in 2008, whose experts are attempting to create the perfect bull. They
don't splice genes, but they track the cattle from birth and scientifically
measure its physical attributes, which are then mixed and matched to improve the
stock.

Primebeef has 22,000 animals that are considered to be seed stock and the
genetics branch extracts eggs from the best heifers and artificially inseminates
them with semen from the best bulls. The breeders introduce the fertilised eggs
to other cows, which act as surrogate mothers to produce the best possible
calves. The genetics team also ensures that the calves are mostly males, which
produce better quality meat than females.

Genetics is also big business in its own right. In 2008 Primebeef bought a 50%
stake in two unproven yearlings called Replay and Powero (pedigree cattle get
names), which Nitsenko paid $68,000 and $74,000 respectively at auction. The two
bulls are in Russia now and when Primebeef auctioned off 50 of their offspring
to other Russian farmers looking to get into the beef game, the most expensive
went for $27,500 and the average price for the other 49 bulls was $8,500,
netting almost $250,000 in profit for the company on just this year's offspring.

Feeding is equally important, as it directly affects the quality of the meat.
Primebeef boasts that its Black Angus are fed on a corn-only diet and the
company also produces the corn - another example of its vertically integrated
operations. Last year, Primebeef built five huge silos to store enough feed corn
for a year and this year might even produce a surplus of corn that it can sell.

About 10,000 head of cattle are on the feedlot at any time, where they are given
four types of corn with some special grasses and straw added to produce a
healthy diet. The corn gives the meat a particular sweetish taste that is the
hallmark of Primebeef steaks. The company uses no chemical or pharmaceutical
additives in its feed.

The young cattle are brought to the feedlot from the farm where they are
carefully fed until they reach at least 500-650kg at an age of 18 to 22 months,
after which they are taken on a short drive to the processing plant a few
kilometres away. "The cow and calf farming is the riskiest part and very
expensive. It is extremely important to be super-efficient at every step in this
part of the business as it can easily go wrong," says Nitsenko.

Last year the company built a full-cycle processing plant. The cattle are
delivered to one end of the building and out of the other end comes trucks
stacked with boxes of steaks and other cuts ranked, sorted and labelled for
delivery to the company's customers.

The crisp white and red building is a state-of-the-art production line, using
equipment mostly shipped from Germany that can produce a variety of products.
The best cuts from the Angus bulls are either packed and wrapped for retail sale
in Russia's high-end supermarkets, while larger cuts are less elaborately
packaged and sent to hotels, restaurants and cafes (shortened to "HoReKa" by
staff of the holding company Zarechnoe), which are the most important customers.

One cow is slaughtered every two minutes, but the company has imported standard
humane practices from the US, which is fast and hygienic; the cows literally
have no idea of what is going to hit them. With most of the pieces now in place
and fully functioning, Primebeef is on track to reach the processing target of
50 cattle per hour.

The sanctions have been a boon for Russia's agricultural sector in general and
for Primebeef in particular. As Russia has a beef production deficit, Primebeef
cannot keep up with demand. However, the devaluation of the ruble and a drought
in the US has further transformed the market. The company was still importing
bulls from the US and Australia to meet demand, but these imports are no longer
profitable, in effect fixing the size of the herd at current levels. "If the
sanctions were dropped tomorrow, we could hike our prices massively, as the
American meat would be a lot more expensive than ours: they would be competing
with us, not us competing with them," says Nitsenko.

At the same time, he says there won't be much domestic competition either. The
devaluation of the ruble has nearly doubled the cost of importing quality
cattle, while at the same time a severe drought in Texas last year also reduced
US herds and pushed the price up even further. Luckily for Primebeef, its herd
was already more or less at the planned size. Indeed, Minatorg, the other big
beef producer in Russia, is having to import cattle from Australia to meet its
obligations and is thought to be doing so at a loss. "If someone else were to
try and get into this business, then they would have to invest at least $1bn,"
says Nitsenko. "We have the best people, the best management and even if they
managed to solve all those problems, it would still take them seven years to
just get to where we are now."

Moscow remains the company's main market, but after initially offering its
steaks to all the better eateries in the capital, it was forced to cut back on
the list of customers as the reputation of its meat soon meant it couldn't cope
with all the orders. "We also have been more insistent that our partners buy not
just the sirloin and rib eye steaks, the tender loin cuts, that everyone wants.
We need to sell the whole cow, so we are offering less well-known cuts. It's a
process of education, as the owners are not keen to try something they don't
know. But once it goes on someone's menu and it is a hit, then they all want
it," says Nitsenko.

First Moscow joint

Primebeef took a huge step up in visibility last year when they teamed up with
lawyer and restaurateur Rappaport to open the Voronezh restaurant opposite
Moscow's Christ our Saviour Cathedral, which is best known for hosting Pussy
Riot's anti-Putin song that landed them in jail.

On the first floor is a luxury burger bar that is run by Andrei Nitsenko, while
upstairs is a proper restaurant. The entire establishment only serves Primebeef
meat and has been a smash hit; the waiting list to get a table in the evening is
already three weeks' long, which is unheard of in a city that is chock full of
elite eateries.

Nitsenko says the group will open a second luxury burger bar in Moscow at the
start of June and is experimenting with both the same luxury burger joint
concept in Voronezh, as well as a mobile truck. "We need to show people what can
be done. We will sell luxury burgers using our meat and introduce things like
the Philly cheese steak, which I don't think exists anywhere in Russia," says
Nitsenko.

Russia may have lost its heavy Soviet meat culture, but everything is in a state
of flux these days. So part of the task for companies like Primebeef is to
re-educate the population to the joys of eating red meat.

But Zarechnoe's biggest problem remains nature: there is no way to accelerate
the time it takes for a cow to give birth to a baby and then have it grow into a
500kg animal. The company has plans to expand its retail operation, but is
fundamentally limited by nature and will never be able to fully satisfy demand
as long as imports are not economically viable.

So far, Primebeef has focused on the HoReKa market and all of Moscow's top chefs
and restaurateurs are well aware of the brand. The vacuum-packed steaks are now
also available in high-end supermarket chains like Azbuka Vkusa and the
German-owned Metro cash and carry, which caters to both trade and retail, so the
name has been getting out by word of mouth. There has been no need to invest
into TV advertising or marketing.

The difficulty of sourcing enough produce has enhanced the brand's value anyway;
there are anecdotes about one top-end restaurant sending staff round to buy up
all the steaks they could from well-hooved competitors after it ran out.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             817 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Russia This Week

                               September 16, 2016

Will the Kremlin fix the Duma elections and can it get away with it if it does?

LENGTH: 1489  words


Russians go to the polls this weekend to vote for a new Duma, in what is widely
expected to be a fixed vote. The final result is a foregone conclusion: United
Russia will be returned as the biggest party. A bne IntelliNews drill-down into
the results of the 2011 Duma election shows how United Russia will almost
certainly retain its majority, but also highlights how weak the Kremlin's grip
on power is.

Despite the vote rigging the election is important, as the United Russia needs
to genuinely win around half the votes. There has been some vote rigging in all
the elections of President Vladimir Putin era, but it ranges between 5% and 12%
according to post election statistical analysis, as bne IntelliNews has reported
in the past.

Unlike in Soviet times, the government cannot simply award itself an 94% victory
on an 97% turnout, as the Central Asian states still routinely do. The rule of
thumb is the electorate will accept an "adjustment" of around 5% but anything
over 10% will send people to the street in protest.

That is exactly what happened in the 2011 Duma election when experts believe the
state added some 12% to United Russia's final tally to get it over the crucial
50% threshold that gives it control of parliament. Election officials
manipulating the count typically round up results to a round number, destroying
the smooth distribution you would get from a collection of truly random votes in
a large sample. The tinkering is clearly visible in the results as spikes around
any number that ends with a zero or a five. A similar phenomena was seen in the
last Turkish elections in 2015 where the ruling party defied a wide consensus of
polls to win a surprise victory.

​

Russia's elections are not about who wins how many votes, but about the ruling
party crossing key thresholds. United Russia began life in the 2003 elections,
headed at the time by the unintelligible prime minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, but
only won 38% of the vote, which is the closest Russia has come to plurality on
Putin's watch. It was subsequently merged with its rival opposition party set up
by Moscow mayor Yuri Luzhkov and former prime minister Evgeny Primakov and was
adopted as the party of power.

In the next elections in 2007, United Russia won 64%, just enough to push it
over the constitutional majority that allowed the party, in theory, to force
through constitutional changes. This ability was Putin's fail-safe against being
sacked by Dmitry Medvedev, who became president in 2008. In that election
experts believe that some 5% was added to United Russia's count to get them over
the constitutional threshold.

The 2008 crisis weighed heavily on the 2011 Duma election where United Russia
won only 49% of the vote - only it actually won about 37% of the vote, according
to experts. The fact the authorities added some 12% to the count was enough to
spark the first large-scale public demonstrations in a decade after more than
100,000 people took to the streets of Moscow.

It was a tense moment, but in one of Putin's more audacious political gambles
(and stepping down was another gamble), he allowed the protests to go ahead.
OMON special forces lined the marching route in a double line wearing full riot
gear, but clearly they had been given orders not to engage the crowd. The hope
was after the people had blown off some steam they would go home and the Kremlin
was banking on Russia's real opposition's inability to present a united front
needed to ferment a coloured revolution. Putin's bet paid off. Since then he has
capitalised on a wave of nationalism following the annexation of Crimea and the
short victorious military campaign in Syria.

Going into these Duma elections and the latest polls have a United Russia rating
of 31%, which is less than the 35% of the total popular vote it needs to get
half the seats in the Duma, after all the votes for parties that fail to cross
the minimum 5% threshold to get any seats are redistributed amongst the winners.

Getting away with - just

Will the state tinker with the vote count again and can it get away with it if
it does?

The Kremlin has several things going for it. Firstly is if a fix is needed then,
thanks to the swell in nationalism, it will need to inject less than 10% that
could spark a protest. At the same time, the opposition is in even more disarray
than before; an attempt to form a united coalition of opposition parties has
splintered in a haze of infighting and recriminations. None of the opposition
parties have any chance of getting anywhere near the 5% Duma threshold.

The bigger problem the Kremlin faces is getting United Russia to the simple
majority threshold, as it genuinely needs the majority of Russians to vote for
its party.

In the last elections the Kremlin was not relying on vote fixing per se by
cajoling a few loyal regions to deliver a bloc of votes large enough to ensure
United Russia got over the 50% hurdle. Drilling down into the distribution of
votes in Russia's 80 odd regions shows that the Kremlin's grip on power is
actually very weak, there is a large chunk of genuine democracy in Russia and
that two thirds of Russia's voters would rather see someone else in power.

In 2011, United Russia won a clear majority in only a third of the regions (28
out of 80). In two thirds of the rest of the country it got less than 50% and in
the last one third United Russia got less than 40% of the vote. United Russia
actually lost the vote in the Yaroslav region with 29%, coming second to the
communists. The governor there has since been replaced.

The only reason that United Russia managed to clear the 50% hurdle at the
federal level was it "won" over 80% of the vote in eight regions and over 90% in
four regions - Chechnya, Dagestan, Mordovia and Ingushetia - all miserably poor
regions in or near the Caucuses that are run by local strong men and are
entirely dependent on the centre's largesse for survival. The dependency shows
up clearly in the level of per capita transfers from the centre to the regions:
in 2011 Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingushetia got RUB10,472, RUB11,375 and RUB13,476
per capita respectively vs the average transfer of RUB2,797 for the whole
country. Yaroslavl was sent a mere RUB613 per person that year, one of the
lowest amounts in Russia.

The Kremlin wins the Duma elections, not from vote rigging but by relying on
this large block of votes from a handful of loyal vassals to push the party of
power's tally over the top. And it can easily bully most regions: in 2011 only
11 out of 80 regional budgets were in surplus. This time round about a third of
Russia's regions are teetering on the edge of bankruptcy and only nine regions
are in profit.

Clearly this is a very unstable state of affairs. Despite the loyalty of
regional bosses like Chechen head Ramzan Kadyrov, these lackeys cannot produce
any more votes than they already are so that even a mild drop in approval in the
other seven eights of the country will make it impossible for the Kremlin to
cover the shortfall by leaning even harder on its most malleable regional
governors.

The new voting rules introduced ahead of this election this year address exactly
this problem. They have created more single district seats, which in effect
means the general election will be fought region by region, reducing the amount
of votes that rely on federal level party list voting. The regional governors in
the less loyal states are supposed to ensure the support for United Russia in
their region doesn't fall from the 2011 result in order to produce a similar
result. This new system will also make vote rigging harder to spot, as it will
be done at a regional, not federal, level.

This will probably be the last election that can be run along these lines. Part
of the trade-off to get regional bosses to deliver United Russia votes will
inevitably mean regional bosses will want more say at a federal level.
Ironically this could have a positive impact on the way the country is run as
many regions are becoming increasingly progressive as they compete for both
foreign and domestic investment.

As United Russia's popularity continues to sink, the only possibility the
Kremlin has to retain its grip on power will be to split to fragment its support
into several more parties that target special interest groups like small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) or pensioners. That is not exactly democracy,
but bne IntelliNews government sources say the process of fragmentation into
interest groups inside United Russia has already begun introducing some internal
competition and debate. What comes out of this process is a hybrid democracy
where the people have some, but not very much, say.

The only other things that comes out of the regional drill-down of the 2012
presidential elections is Putin's personal popularity is consistently high
across the whole country, fluctuating around the 60% mark even in the regions
that didn't support United Russia.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             819 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - MENA Today

                              July 5, 2013 Friday

Reactions to Egyptian army's political roadmap range from rejection by Islamists
to support from Gulf monarchs

LENGTH: 398  words


Domestic and international reaction to the Egyptian army's imposed roadmap for
the country's political future varied from street violence to open support.

Domestically

Waiting no time following the ouster of President Morsi, the generals true to
their roadmap for the political future of the country hastily oversaw the
swearing in of Judge Adli Mansour, the Supreme Justice of the Constitutional
Court, as interim President of Egypt. President Mansour gave a conciliatory
speech to the nation inviting all political forces, including the Muslim
Brotherhood from whose ranks hailed former President Morsi, to participate in
the transition towards an inclusive democratic political system. On its part,
the Muslim Brotherhood leadership asserted that President Morsi was ousted in a
coup d'état refusing to cooperate with the new authorities and calling on its
members to take onto the streets in support of Morsi. In the aftermath of
Morsi's ouster, several violent clashes took place between pro- and anti-Morsi
camps throughout the country leaving a handful of deaths and a few hundred
wounded although Cairo was relatively calm. On the first day of trading in the
post-Morsi era, local investors gave a resounding vote of confidence in the new
leadership and its roadmap with the EGX-30 index of leading stocks soaring by
7.31%.

Regionally and Internationally

Gulf Arab petro-monarchies lead by Saudi Arabia openly supported the army's
roadmap. In a note published by the Saudi Press Agency, Saudi King Abdallah
thanked the new authorities for their action. His support may have been fuelled
in part from fear of an Egypt lead by Islamist Morsi may embolden home grown
Islamists against the rule of the Saudi monarchs. But also the re-entry into
domestic politics of the Egyptian army, deemed as central to the regional
balance of power against the likes of Iran, gives Saudi Arabia greater leverage
and a larger room for manoeuvre in regional politics.

Meanwhile, Western capitals caught between a rock and a hard place trying to
remain true to their democratic principles and having had to deal for a year
with an inept Morsi leading the Arab world's most populous nation were careful
not to be seen backing the generals' intervention in politics while urging the
new authorities to complete the handover to democratically elected President and
parliament as soon as practically possible.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             820 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - MENA Today

                            August 15, 2013 Thursday

Egyptian security crackdown on pro-Morsi sit-ins to push political foes further
apart

LENGTH: 514  words


The interim Egyptian government declared on August 14 a month long state of
emergency and a night curfew in 14 governorates after security forces forcefully
dispersed two large pro-Morsi sit-ins in the capital. The dawn crackdown on the
sit-ins held at two large squares in Cairo and Giza for the past 47 days
demanding the return of ousted President Mohamed Morsi triggered nationwide
protests and armed street battles between Islamist militias and security forces
leaving 211 dead, including 49 among security forces, and over 1,400 wounded,
according to official figures.

The Muslim Brotherhood, from which Morsi hails, put the figures slightly higher
at around 300 dead and thousands wounded. The forced dispersal of the sit-ins
came after weeks of Egyptian, Arab and international mediation efforts between
the Muslim Brotherhood and the new authorities failed to negotiate a peaceful
resolution to the political stalemate.

President Mohamed Morsi was ousted from power by the Egyptian army on July 3
following a petition campaign by the youth lead Tamarod movement demanding
Morsi's resignation snowballed into nationwide mass demonstrations running in
the tens of millions against the Muslim Brotherhood's rule. The army and
opposition political forces moved quickly to fill the political vacuum setting a
new political roadmap that appointed the head of the constitutional court as
interim president, pledged to amend the constitution of 2012, to hold a
referendum on the amends and to call parliamentary and presidential elections
all in all within a 2-year period.

Implications

As the events unfolded, the security crackdown on the sit-ins claimed its first
political victim when former opposition stalwart Vice President for Foreign
Affairs Mohamed El Baradei announced his resignation in protest against the
violent dispersal of protesters. He asserted that extremist groups will be the
only winners of the forced dispersal of pro-Morsi sit-ins. Indeed, the Muslim
Brotherhood's strategy to shun all attempts at reaching a political deal to pave
the way for peaceful dispersal of the sit-ins over the past few weeks seemed to
analysts designed at inviting a security crackdown that could be turned into
political capital among the Islamist segments of the electorate. With much of
Egypt's liberal and socialist politicians rallying behind the interim
government's decision to forcefully disperse the sit-ins. It is likely that the
security crackdown on the sit-ins will end for a long time to come any chances
of reconciliation between the Muslim Brotherhood-led Islamist camp and those in
the secularist camp, thus, further pushing the two sides apart on a shared
vision of the Egyptian state as the nation heads into the crucial period of
amending the constitution.

On the financial front, the worsening security situation on the streets prompted
the central bank to ask lenders to shut their doors at 1200 PM local time and
declared a bank holiday on August 15. The stock exchange will also be closed
today after the EGX-30, an index of leading stocks, plunged 1.7% on August 14.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             821 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                           September 20, 2013 Friday

Tajik oppositional Islamic party nominates its presidential candidate.

LENGTH: 96  words


Tajik major opposition party, the Islamic Revival Party has nominated rights
campaigner Oinikhol Bobonazarova as a presidential candidate. Bobonazarova is
likely to get support also from the Social Democratic Party which is to gather
for a congress on Sep 21. Presidential election will be held in Tajikistan in
the middle of November. The Incumbent President Emomali Rakhmon who has been in
power since 1992 and will most probably keep the power. Still, the internal
tension is likely to grow ahead of the election especially in Badakhshan were
riots sparked in summer last year.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: English US

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             822 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - MENA Today

                             January 6, 2014 Monday

Egypt constitutional referendum might lead to more violence or rule by martial
law

LENGTH: 240  words


As the deadline for Egypt's constitutional referendum slated for January 14-15
approaches, the frequency and intensity of violent protests by Muslim
Brotherhood (MB) lead Coalition for Legitimacy has increased throughout the
country. Protests over the weekend in Cairo, Alexandria and a number of
provincial capitals in the Delta demanding the reinstitution of Islamist
President Mohamed Morsi has left 19 dead, by one account, and scores of torched
police cars.

The MB's success in mobilizing its troops and recruiting auxiliaries, mainly
paid unemployed youth and housewives, to attack and bomb symbols of state
authority such as police stations, university campuses and the media, has
triggered a heavy crackdown by the security forces. The assault on the
organizational structure of the MB as well as protestors rejecting the
heavy-handed tactics of military-lead authorities is tarnishing the image of the
military-backed government in Cairo.

Domestically, a vocal minority is increasingly expressing concern over the
flagrant violation of civil liberties by the authorities in their witch hunt
against the MB. Internationally, Qatar, a staunch supporter of the Muslim
Brotherhood, has already expressed concern over human rights violations
following a crackdown on demonstrators. With one week to go to the referendum
and street violence seemingly spiralling out of control, Egyptians are bracing
themselves for a week of sustained violence.


LOAD-DATE: January 06, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             823 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                            April 10, 2014 Thursday

Kazakhstan tightens internal law, trains police forces.

LENGTH: 347  words


Kazakhstan amended several laws which are aimed at increasing control over the
society. Although it was never said publicly, the main reason for the changes is
the authorities' fear over possible birth of separatism tendencies in the
country encouraged by the recent policy of Russia towards Ukraine.

The Kazakh parliament approved changes to the law "On communications" to allow
the Prosecutor General Office temporarily block means of communication,
networks, communications services, access to the Internet or websites if they
are used to carry out criminal activities; inflict damage to the interests of
individuals, public or the government; disseminate information violating the law
on elections; call for extremism, terrorism or public disturbance. According to
previous text, the prosecutor needed to ask for the court sanction. To step into
force, the bill needs to be signed by the president.

At the same time, Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev proposed corrections to
the new Criminal Code which provide harsher punishment for vowing for separatism
or the country's disintegration in the media or on the Internet. The new
Criminal Code will step into life on Jul 1.

Meanwhile, the Central Communications Service informed that policemen, officers
and personnel of the internal troops of Ministry of Interior as well as workers
of the departments of the Ministry of Emerging Situation will be tested for
readiness to counter civil unrest. The exercises will be monitored by the PM
Karim Masimov which clearly shows that the ability to control internal situation
is a key issue for newly appointed head of the government.

Kazakhstan is seriously afraid that Russia may try to implement Ukrainian
scenario on its territory (Russian minority in Kazakhstan accounts for nearly
24% and lives mainly in the northern part of the country). At the same time,
Astana's room of maneuvering is very limited as it may not count for support
from the West. In addition, Russia is pursuing its integration project Eurasian
Union which from Kazakhstan's perspective threatens its sovereignty.


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             824 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Macedonia Today

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

EU, US, OSCE, NATO urge Macedonians to refrain from violent protests

LENGTH: 366  words


The EU, US, OSCE and NATO urged all citizens in Macedonia to remain calm and
refrain from violence following aggressive protests by ethnic Albanians in the
last couple of days, a joint statement of the Delegation of the EU, the US
Embassy and the Missions of OSCE and NATO informs. The statement also called on
the citizens and the leaders of the Balkan country to address issues that
"undermine the mutual understanding and cooperative interethnic relations"
through a constructive dialogue.

The release also noted that all people have the right to demonstrate peacefully,
but not the right to participate in destructive or violent acts.

The statement called for opening dialogue and strengthening ties between
different communities. It concluded by noting that there is an opportunity for
the leaders "to stand for an integrated country that fully respects its
diversity."

We remind that ethnic Albanians have demonstrated since July 4, protesting
against the life sentences given to six ethnic Albanians, who are defendants in
a murder case. The case is about the killing of five Macedonian fishermen at a
lake near Skopje in 2012. The protesters claim that there is a lack of evidence.

About 2,000 people participated in the first protest held in Skopje last Friday.
During it, some demonstrators threw rocks and other objects at the police cordon
and pelted the building of the Skopje Basic Court 1 with rocks. The police used
water cannons, teargas and stun grenades. About 20 police officers and several
demonstrators were injured during the protest. Some of the injuries were
serious, but not life threatening. Six participants in the demonstration were
detained.

On Sunday, July 6, protests were organized again in seven Macedonian cities,
including Skopje, Tetovo, Struga, Debar, Kicevo, Gostivar and Ohrid. The
demonstrations were relatively peaceful, with the exception of the one in
Tetovo. Protests took place in Gostivar and Struga on Monday, July 7 as well.

The public prosecutor in the case, Gordana Geskovska, commented previously that
the sentences can be appealed. During the trial, she sought maximum sentences
claiming that the murder of the five Macedonians is with terrorist motives.


LOAD-DATE: July 08, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             825 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Macedonia Today

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

Anti-government protests in Macedonia continue

LENGTH: 247  words


Several thousand people demanded the resignation of Macedonia's Prime Minister
Nikola Gruevski on May 7, the third day of protests in the country, Utrinski
vesnik daily reported. The demonstration, which was peaceful, unlike the first
one, took place in front of the parliament's building in Skopje, as protesters
were not allowed to march in front of the buildings of the government and the
public prosecutor's office.

We remind that the protests began on May 5 after opposition leader Zoran Zaev
claimed Gruevski had tried to cover up the death of Martin Neskovski in June
2011. The demonstration started shortly after Zaev, leader of the biggest
opposition party SDSM, revealed a new batch of incriminating audio files. The
tapes include conversations between Interior Minister Gordana Jankulovska and
other officials regarding the killing of 21-year-old Neskovski, who was beaten
to death by a policeman when VMRO-DPMNE supporters were celebrating the party's
victory in the June 2011 parliament election. The police officer responsible for
Neskovski's death subsequently received a 14-year jail sentence.

The most violent protest took place in front of the government's building on May
5, when 38 policemen were injured. On May 6, the demonstration took place in
front of the parliament's building and was relatively peaceful and without major
incidents, Utrinski reported. Meanwhile, protests were held in other parts of
the country as well, including Prilep, Strumica, and Bitola.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             826 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - MENA Today

                              May 11, 2015 Monday

Egypt's new bread subsidy system to reduce wheat consumption by 1.9mn tons this
year

LENGTH: 173  words


Egypt's supplies ministry will reduce wheat consumption by 1.9mn tons in the
current financial year ending in June compared to the previous year following
the adoption of a new bread subsidy system, El Khabar El Eqtesady reported.

The ministry successfully implemented the new subsidized bread distribution
system through replacing the old system that relied on the sale of wheat to
bakeries at subsidized prices, which led to black market sales of wheat and
bread shortages, with liberalization of wheat sales to bakeries at market
prices.

Then, the government would pay bakeries the difference between the market price
of bread and the subsidize prices it asks them to sell bread to welfare
recipients. Welfare recipients are eligible to receive 5 loafs of subsidized
bread per person per day through a smart card system. The system was introduced
in all of Egypt's governorates in little less than a year and is being hailed by
officials and citizens alike for eliminating long bread line-ups that on
occasion led to street fights and riots.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             827 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Macedonia Today

                              May 15, 2015 Friday

Leaders of Macedonia's 4 largest parties launch meetings to overcome political
crisis

LENGTH: 559  words


The leaders of the four largest political parties in Macedonia held a meeting in
the presence of the ambassadors of the EU and the US in a bid to overcome the
13-month long political crisis in the country, state news agency MIA reported.
The crisis deepened in May amid large anti-government protests, deadly battles
between government forces and suspected terrorists, and minister resignations.

The meeting was attended by PM Nikola Gruevski, also leader of the ruling party
VMRO-DPMNE, Zoran Zaev, leader of the biggest opposition party SDSM, Ali Ahmeti,
leader of the biggest ethnic Albanian party DUI, which is also a ruling
coalition partner, and Menduh Thaci, leader of the opposition ethnic Albanian
party DPA. However, no concrete solution was reached for overcoming the crisis.
The leaders adopted a declaration on non-violent protests or any other
gatherings and agreed to meet again on May 18. A rally of opposition protesters
is scheduled for May 17, while the ruling party is organising protests in
support of the police forces.

On May 14, SDSM demanded again the formation of a transitional government, among
others, Utrinski vesnik reported quoting unofficial information. On the other
hand, VMRO-DPMNE proposed solving the problem through forming working groups,
which was completely unacceptable for the opposition, the daily adds. Ahmeti
called for intensifying the political dialogue, and reportedly asked for
additional reshuffle of Macedonia's government.

Most MPs from the SDSM have boycotted the parliament since the April 2014
general elections. The SDSM claims the elections, which resulted in a victory
for VMRO-DPMNE, were rigged.

In February, Zaev accused Gruevski of ordering a massive wiretapping campaign
that targeted more than 20,000 Macedonian citizens. Since then, the opposition
leader has made dozens of more allegations, publishing tapped phone
conversations concerning, among others, government involvement in the judiciary
and appointments. Gruevski said the scandal is a plot by foreign intelligence
services. Zaev claims he received the phone conversations from a whistleblower.

Macedonian prosecutors charged Zaev with "violence against representatives of
the highest state bodies". The prosecutors indicted four more people, already in
pre-trial detention, on charges including espionage, illegal wiretaping and
violence.

Anti-government protests began on May 5, with the first protest being violent.

On May 9-10 at least 22 people, including eight police officers, were killed in
armed clashes in the town of Kumanovo, close to Macedonia's borders with Serbia
and Kosovo. This was the worst outbreak of violence in the country since the
inter-ethnic conflict between Macedonians and Albanians ended in 2001. The
police launched the operation in Kumanovo after receiving intelligence that a
terrorist group was planning a series of attacks on civilian and government
targets in the country.

On May 12, three top Macedonian ministers and officials resigned, signalling a
deepening political crisis. Interior Minister Gordana Jankuloska and Transport
Minister Mile Janakieski were key members of Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski's
administration, having held their posts since 2006. The other resignation was
that of Saso Mijalkov, director of the administration for security and
counterintelligence, who is Gruevski's cousin.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             828 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Macedonia Today

                            November 27, 2015 Friday

Stranded migrants remove fence, demand passage to northern Europe

LENGTH: 187  words


Hundreds of migrants from Morocco, Algeria, and Pakistan removed on November 26
part of the barbed wire fence at the border crossing between Macedonia and
Greece and demanded to be allowed to continue on their way to Germany and
northern Europe, Reuters reported.

Several crossed the border and entered Macedonia but the police detained them
promptly. A 30-40 meter gap of the fence was guarded by riot police, some of
whom armed with assault rifles.

Earlier this week, Skopje indicated it will not change its decision to allow
passage only to refugees from Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Migrants from other
places are considered economic and are denied entry. The other three countries
on the main migration route via the Balkans - Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia -
have all implemented the same measure as well.

In a November 24 statement, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) warned of a "fresh
humanitarian situation" at border crossings from Greece into the Balkans due to
"new and uncoordinated restrictions". According to the UNHCR, as of November 24
around 1,000 people were stuck at the main entry point into Macedonia from
Greece.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             829 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Macedonia Today

                             March 8, 2016 Tuesday

COMMENT: The Balkans chain reaction

LENGTH: 916  words


Wishful thinking has long permeated Europe's response to the migrant crisis. Its
much-derided relocation scheme exposes on a weekly-basis the embarrassing limits
of European solidarity. With winter having failed to drastically stem the flow
of migrants, the bloc is now investing all its hopes in Turkey. In return for
new aid, visa liberalisation promises and accelerated EU membership talks,
Turkey will fast track the return of "all irregular migrants crossing into the
Greek islands". In outlining the deal, the EU draft statement prematurely
proclaimed the Balkans route closed. As spring approaches, however, there are
signs of new fronts opening up in the migration crisis, with a Balkans chain
reaction now well underway.

Countries of the Western Balkans - Serbia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, in particular - have been roundly applauded thus far for their
treatment of migrants. Both, however, have firmly insisted throughout that they
are purely transit countries. Provided the asylum seekers depart within days,
they are free to enter and will be given assistance to leave. None are permitted
to remain. As EU member states have gradually shut-up shop and imposed admission
caps, so countries throughout the region have become increasingly concerned
about refugee bottlenecks forming on their own doorstep.

In late February, a mix of ten EU and non-EU member states stretching from
Austria to Albania agreed ad hoc measures designed to overcome EU paralysis. The
key distinction made was to grant entry to those "in proven need of protection"
- thereby prioritising refugees from Syria and Iraq over those from Afghanistan
and elsewhere. A common approach to registering migrants was also rubber stamped
in order to aid information sharing.

The closure of the border between Macedonia and Greece is a prime example of how
the region has been forced by European actions to adopt a more assertive
approach. After increasingly desperate asylum seekers broke through fencing,
police fired tear gas on the desperate mass of men, women and children, whilst
Greek police intervened to forcibly remove Afghan protesters near the border.
Some 13,000 asylum seekers are currently stranded in increasingly dire
conditions. The trickle granted permission to cross has been insufficient to
relieve the pressure.

Justifying the move, Macedonia's president, Gjorge Ivanov, went so far as to
declare that as the crisis was originating in a Schengen country, Greece, his
country was actually "defending the EU from itself". Macedonia, like Serbia, is
not prepared to be more European than the Europeans themselves.

The main consequence of these collective measures has been a massing of migrants
on Greek soil. As the pressure grows on already strained resources, so the
prospect of a chain reaction becomes more pronounced, displacing the migrant
problem from one place to another.

The Balkan's porous borders - a consequence of challenging geography as much as
corruption and capacity-constraints - have long complicated efforts to combat
the trafficking of narcotics, weapons, cigarettes and humans into Europe. To
believe that such borders can now be magically sealed is an extreme case of
wishful thinking that runs counter to the region's recent history.

As tougher regimes come into effect - both in terms of border controls and entry
criteria - so the number of illegal entries in countries such as Macedonia,
Hungary and Serbia continues to spike, with migrants increasingly keen to avoid
registration and verification of their origins. Hungary reported some 1,500
illegal entries from Serbia in February alone, despite erecting barbed wire and
fences.

New routes

Asylum seekers are increasingly seeking out alternative routes. The closure of
the well-trodden path from Greece into Macedonia is forcing migrants westwards
through Albania's porous borders, exploiting routes well-established during the
collapse of the Enver Hoxha dictatorship in the early 1990s. Albanian smugglers
have reportedly been investing in speedboats to ferry migrants across the
poorly-patrolled Adriatic, potentially revitalising a smuggling route which led
the Albanian government to adopt a 2005 moratorium on their use. The east coast
of Italy may well be the next port of call for migrants.

There is also considerable speculation about an eastern Balkan front opening up,
with Bulgaria's frontiers with Greece and Turkey attracting considerable
attention. Despite constructing a wire fence along various sections of its
border, Bulgaria has also struggled to contain migrant flows, despite its
reputation as a hostile and unwelcoming host. Even the Black Sea is being
considered as an alternative.

As the humanitarian crisis in Greece grows, so migrants will pursue new paths
towards their ultimate goal of seeking asylum in Western Europe. Relying on
Turkey to alleviate the problem is wishful thinking of the highest order.
Migrants - especially those not from Syria or Iraq - are unlikely to let their
future be decided by the whim of a resettlement lottery. The logistical
challenges of the `one in, one out' proposal mean that Europe will continue to
remain vulnerable to the porous Balkans, with countries increasingly prepared to
reciprocate Europe's lack of solidarity. The Balkans route existed long before
Syrian refugees, and will continue to adjust and adapt to changing realities on
the ground. Proclaiming the Balkans route closed may work rhetorically, if not
practically.


LOAD-DATE: March 09, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             830 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                              May 20, 2016 Friday

Kazakh government tries to snuff out land protests

LENGTH: 1609  words


The Kazakh government has arrested a dozen activists from all over the country
ahead of protests against the sale and lease of farmland planned on May 21.

Though President Nursultan Nazarbayev has moved to defuse opposition by
postponing the controversial provisions of the latest land reforms, the
authorities are still cracking down because they fear that the demonstrations
could grow into wider, Ukrainian Euromaidan-style protests for real political
reform amid the economic problems the country is experiencing as a result of low
oil and other commodity prices.

Speaking at a government meeting on May 18, President Nazarbayev re-emphasised
that he had imposed a moratorium until next year on controversial amendments to
the Land Code envisaging sales of farmland via auctions and extending the leases
of farmland to foreigners from 10 to 25 years.

The amendments, adopted in November 2015 and expected to come into force on July
1, had sparked unprecedented large-scale street protests that started in the oil
capital of Atyrau on April 24 and spread to the other oil cities of Aktobe,
Aktau and Oral (also spelt as Uralsk), and further to Semey, Astana and Almaty.
Zhanaozen, which was the scene of violent unrest in December 2011 when clashes
between striking oil workers and security forces resulted in at least 15 deaths,
also held a rally against the sale of farmland.

The population believes the leases of farmland will encourage Chinese expansion
into Kazakhstan and even the eventual loss of land to China.

"I've signed a decree on a number of provisions of land legislation. A relevant
commission was set up and started working, and its first sitting caused a wide
resonance. All members of the commission should work out a coordinated position
on improve the legislation on land," Nazarbayev said in reference to a
newly-formed commission on land reforms, headed by Deputy Prime Minister
Bakytzhan Sagintayev and made up of government officials, MPs and public
figures, which held its first sitting on May 14 lasting for seven hours.
"Everyone who is really concerned about land should be able to speak."

In addition to the moratorium and commission, Nazarbayev also ordered the
re-establishment of a Ministry of Information and Communications, which will
police the media and social networks, and monitor the public mood and rapidly
react to it. His former spokesman, Dauren Abayev, was appointed to head the
ministry.

"It is a complicated time now and Kazakh citizens don't want the Ukrainian
[Euromaidan] events in Kazakhstan - I know this and let everyone hear this. But
those who want to bring [Euromaidan] here [should know that] we will take the
harshest measures so they know - and don't say that I didn't warn them!"
Nazarbayev said earlier this month.

In order to prevent a Euromaidan-style revolt in Kazakhstan and satisfy the
middle class's growing demands for change, Nazarbayev ordered the government to
conduct "studies of public opinion on the most acute topics and issues, and
analysis of the population's demand for information and its expectations".

Euromaidan spectre

Amid the unauthorised protests in major urban centres, activists in the
country's second largest city of Shymkent, the capital of the densely-populated
and rural South Kazakhstan Region, applied to local authorities for permission
to hold a rally on May 21. The date has now been widely accepted as a nationwide
call for protest.

The authorities have taken the situation seriously and have moved to pre-empt
the rallies by arresting the most vocal activists ahead of the protest weekend:
according to Azattyq Radio, the Kazakh Service of the Radio Free Europe/Radio
Liberty (RFE/RL), police arrested and harassed more than a dozen activists in
Atyrau, Oral, Astana, Almaty, Zhezkazgan and Taldykorgan on May 17 alone,
jailing them to three to 15 days and imposing fines for the administrative
offences of calling for protests and discussing them on Facebook. In Shymkent,
police issued a summons for Azattyq's regional correspondent Dilara Isa and the
editor of the local newspaper Temirqazyk-oy, Anar Suleyeva, "in connection with
the May 21 rally".

The arrests were accompanied by government warnings to other potential
protesters that its response will be harsh: Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet
Kasymov said that "all issues have already been solved and a state commission is
working and discussing everything. There is no need to hold rallies".

However, he also issued a warning: "There should be order. A certain group of
people cannot violate general order as they will hinder the transport and of
course we will take measures," he said.

Almaty city Prosecutor Berik Asylov also joined the chorus: "Today [May 16] the
Almaty city administration refused to permit public rallies on land issues on
May 21, In connection with this I warn all residents of Almaty and users of
social media against the violation of the law."

Regional differences

Nurtay Kozhakhanov, leader of the Azat Democratic Party's branch in South
Kazakhstan Region and a member of a loose patriotic group of individual
activists called Alash Zholy which applied for a rally in Shymkent on May 21,
told bne IntelliNews that following Nazarbayev's moratorium on the controversial
amendments there was no need to hold a rally.

"There should be a good reason for rallying. The issue seems to have lost its
topicality given the moratorium," Kozhakhanov explains to bne IntelliNews.

Azat, which has shifted from the being an openly opposition party to a mildly
pro-presidential one, appealed to President Nazarbayev on May 18 to release
detained activists and issue permission to hold rallies on May 21.

"There is no doubt that, in the situation of the growing social tension and
public mistrust in this government, further violations of basic rights of Kazakh
citizens could lead to the most serious and unpredictable consequences," the
party said in the appeal. "We demand the immediate release of those convicted
for administrative offences and the end to persecution, arrests and other forms
of harassment of citizens, because their public and political activity is
determined by, above all, sincere concern for the fate of Kazakhstan."

Shymkent-based observers explain the lack of a visible protest mood in South
Kazakhstan by regional differences: the region is overwhelmingly rural (55% of
the population) and is dependent on Astana for budget spending, unlike western
oil regions and Almaty which contribute to the central budget more than they
receive back.

The low oil price has severely affected the economy of oil-rich regions, unlike
regions which don't depend on oil but government funds, Ainur Nurtai, director
of the Shymkent-based state-funded Youth Initiative Fund, explains to bne
IntelliNews.

"South Kazakhstan Region is a recipient region depending on funds from the
central budget and, since the funds it receives haven't been cut, the majority
of the region's population hasn't felt significant changes," Nurtai says. "The
government is also providing farmers and the rural population with subsidies and
small loans so they are not yet feeling serious consequences from the crisis."

Unlike rural regions in the country's south and north, most foreign investment
the country has received has gone into the oil and gas sector in Kazakhstan's
western regions. As a result, "the population in the south doesn't see an influx
of foreigners as in western regions. Hence, there is no tension between them in
the south," Nurtai notes.

Illusoriness

Amengeldi Kalybek, an activist in the Shymkent-based Prisma youth organisation,
explains that Kazakhstan's "economic successes" in previous years have been
maintained by high oil prices but the low oil price has shown the "illusoriness"
of the country's economic achievements and the weaknesses in economic security.

This has changed relations between regional elites and the centre, which is
manifested in public protests, he argues. "At this moment, I would like to pay
greater attention not to the public mood but to the behaviour of regional elites
and their relations with the centre," Kalybek tells bne IntelliNews.

"Until now Astana has generously thanked regions for their loyalty via
government programmes, but with shortages of funds it will be interesting to
watch the behaviour the regional elites in the near future and whether they have
enough patience."

Kalybek also explains protest mood in different regions by their relations with
Astana in terms of net contributors or recipients of funds from the government.
"South Kazakhstan is relatively calm, whereas the public mood in Western
Kazakhstan, which contributes to the central budget, is rapidly turning into
demands for action," he says.

According to the budget in 2016, Astana is expected to withdraw a combined
KZT214.8bn (nearly (EURO)600mn) from the local budgets in western oil-rich
Atyrau and Mangistau Regions and Almaty and Astana, and to send a combined
KZT837bn to other regions, including KZT256bn to South Kazakhstan Region.

Ordinary people in Shymkent interviewed by bne IntelliNews are overwhelmingly
against the sales of farmland and the leases of it to foreigners but say that
they will refrain from protesting in public.

Abilkasym Yesentayev, a 27-year-old civil servant, explains his opposition to
the amendments by drawing parallels with the lease of the Baikonur
space-launching facility to Russia. "We are leasing the Baikonur cosmodrome to
Russia which has imposed its laws in Baikonur," he tells bne IntelliNews,
referring to the shared Kazakh-Russian jurisdiction at the facility. "Where are
guarantees that this doesn't happen to farmlands leased by China?"


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             831 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Kazakhstan & Central Asia Today

                              June 6, 2016 Monday

Suspected Islamic radicals, economic troubles threaten stability in Kazakhstan

LENGTH: 1109  words


Following weeks of large protests against land reform, Kazakhstan's government
now faces another challenge in the form of militant Islamism.  Public discontent
over the authoritarian style of President Nursultan Nazarbayev's regime and
falling living conditions are now starting to pose a threat to the country's
much-touted stability.

Kazakh police killed four, wounded two and detained seven suspected Islamist
militants in a counter-terrorist operation in the western city of Aktobe on June
5, Tengrinews reports. A group of what the authorities call "radical followers
of non-traditional religious movements", a phrase used in Kazakhstan to describe
Islamist militants, attacked two firearms stores and a military unit killing six
people, including three servicemen. A curfew was imposed in the city and
authorities shut down the public transport and leisure facilities. Residents of
Aktobe also complained about problems with mobile and internet services.

The oil city of Aktobe, located some 100km from the Russian border, was a scene
of shootouts between security services and alleged terrorists in 2011. It was
the site of the country's first suicide bombing in 2011, when a local man
detonated an explosive device inside the building of the state security service.

Authorities were quick to link the Aktobe incident to radical Islamists, a small
but growing group in the country where religion had been banned for decades
under Soviet rule. "The terrorist attack in Aktobe ahead of the holy month of
Ramadan is a manifestation of the extreme cynicism and violence of the bandits.
Most harsh measures are being taken to punish them," Speaker of the Kazakh
parliament's upper chamber Kassym-Zhomart Tokayev wrote on his Twitter account.

"Since last November I have been touring prisons where I have met those of our
citizens who for various reasons had been in Syria and fought there and who were
then detained upon returning to Kazakhstan or in third countries and handed over
to our [law-enforcement] bodies and were later convicted," Yerlan Karin,
director of the state-run KISI think-tank wrote on his Facebook page. "Among
them were those who returned with specific goals and plans."

Authorities estimate that more than 200 Kazakh citizens are fighting alongside
"international terrorist groups" in Syria and Iraq. In March Karin ruled out
links between Islamic State (IS) or al-Qaeda and local terrorist incidents.

"In the region there has been observed no serious activity by one of these
radical groups, while some incidents and events blamed on IS or al-Qaeda to a
greater extent are speculation and interpretation by the media and experts," he
said.

The former al-Qaeda affiliate Afghanistan-based Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan,
which has a violent record of terrorist attacks in Uzbekistan, pledged
allegiance to Islamic State in August 2015. Such groups are actively involved in
promoting Islamic extremism in the region and recruiting Central Asians to their
causes.

Critics, and even pro-government experts, suggest that authorities in Central
Asia benefit from labelling opposition as radical Islamists in order to justify
tightening their grip on power and their clampdown on civil liberties as the
fight against terrorism invites sympathy in Western capitals.

However, it remains unclear if the gunmen really were religiously inspired.
Central Asia does have a small radical Islamic element, the best known of which
is the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) which has carried several attacks in
the Uzbek capital of Tashkent. But the radicalisation of the generally very
secular Central Asian republics has not been a significant factor in domestic
politics.

The Kazakh special services have already muddied the water by claiming on June 6
that the attack was actually an attempted coup d'etat by local businessman
Tokhtar Tuleshov.

"Since last year, Tuleshov has been actively preparing for a violent seizure of
power," said spokesman for the National Security Committee, Ruslan Karasev,
cited by the Moscow Times.

"Tuleshov's plan was to create tensions within the country by organising
protests and riots," Karasev claimed, adding that the resulting upheaval could
have allowed the businessman to create an "alternative government". Special
services detained several of Tuleshov's alleged accomplices, including a former
deputy prosecutor general and a former member of the constitutional council,
Interfax reported. Tuleshov is also charged with drug possession and a number of
serious crimes including kidnapping and deliberate destruction of property.

However, Tuleshov's arrest is just as likely to be related to some political
score settling as it is to the attack.

Tensions in the country erupted two weeks ago in the land protests and the
reaction to them has demonstrated the government's nervousness amid the ongoing
economic crisis in Central Asia's richest nation caused by low oil and other
commodity prices. Up to 1,000 people were arrested in two days of protest,
although the authorities have barely acknowledged the unrest, despite dramatic
footage on social media highlighting the scale of the protests and the
authorities' heavy-handed response.

The nearly 50% depreciation of the national currency, the tenge, has resulted in
double digit inflation (16.7% in May). According to official statistics, real
incomes fell by 0.3% y/y in the first quarter of 2016, as the workforce
decreased by 0.8% y/y in April.

Nazarbayev will hope that his heavy-handed reaction to the land protests and the
similarly harsh crackdown on religious freedoms expected in the aftermath of the
Aktobe incident will now quell the unrest. The security authorities have amassed
significant resources since the violent clashes between striking oil workers and
security forces in the oil town of Zhanaozen in December 2011, which resulted in
at least 15 deaths.

While discontent could continue erupting from time to time, it is most unlikely
that a Ukrainian Euromaidan-style movement would take place in Kazakhstan: the
economic boom of nearly a decade in the run-up to the global financial crisis in
2008-2009 has significantly improved the living standards of ordinary Kazakhs,
making them relatively rich. They had a per capita GDP of $9,796 in 2015
(exceeding that of Russia's for the first time in 2015 at $9,055 and favourably
comparing to Ukraine's $2,005 and Kyrgyzstan's $1,113).

However, the growing middle class in Kazakhstan expects continued economic
improvement and they are becoming increasingly assertive in their demands for
political reform and rights. Nazarbayev and his government will eventually have
to address these concerns.


LOAD-DATE: June 08, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             832 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - MENA This Week

                                  July 5, 2013

Reaction to Egyptian army's political roadmap range from rejection by Islamists
to support from Gulf monarchs

LENGTH: 398  words


Domestic and international reaction to the Egyptian army's imposed roadmap for
the country's political future varied from street violence to open support.

Domestically

Waiting no time following the ouster of President Morsi, the generals true to
their roadmap for the political future of the country hastily oversaw the
swearing in of Judge Adli Mansour, the Supreme Justice of the Constitutional
Court, as interim President of Egypt. President Mansour gave a conciliatory
speech to the nation inviting all political forces, including the Muslim
Brotherhood from whose ranks hailed former President Morsi, to participate in
the transition towards an inclusive democratic political system. On its part,
the Muslim Brotherhood leadership asserted that President Morsi was ousted in a
coup d'état refusing to cooperate with the new authorities and calling on its
members to take onto the streets in support of Morsi. In the aftermath of
Morsi's ouster, several violent clashes took place between pro- and anti-Morsi
camps throughout the country leaving a handful of deaths and a few hundred
wounded although Cairo was relatively calm. On the first day of trading in the
post-Morsi era, local investors gave a resounding vote of confidence in the new
leadership and its roadmap with the EGX-30 index of leading stocks soaring by
7.31%.

Regionally and Internationally

Gulf Arab petro-monarchies lead by Saudi Arabia openly supported the army's
roadmap. In a note published by the Saudi Press Agency, Saudi King Abdallah
thanked the new authorities for their action. His support may have been fuelled
in part from fear of an Egypt lead by Islamist Morsi may embolden home grown
Islamists against the rule of the Saudi monarchs. But also the re-entry into
domestic politics of the Egyptian army, deemed as central to the regional
balance of power against the likes of Iran, gives Saudi Arabia greater leverage
and a larger room for manoeuvre in regional politics.

Meanwhile, Western capitals caught between a rock and a hard place trying to
remain true to their democratic principles and having had to deal for a year
with an inept Morsi leading the Arab world's most populous nation were careful
not to be seen backing the generals' intervention in politics while urging the
new authorities to complete the handover to democratically elected President and
parliament as soon as practically possible.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             835 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Montenegro Today

                            February 16, 2014 Sunday

Antigovernment protestors injure nine policemen in Montenegro

LENGTH: 200  words


Twenty people were arrested in Montenegro on Saturday, Feb 15, after
anti-government protesters clashed with police on the streets of Podgorica and
nine policemen were injured, broadcaster RTCG reported.

Demonstrators threw stones at the government building and the police in front of
it. The police then intervened, using tear gas and the dispersed the crowed.
Several hundred gathered in the protest, which was organised via a Facebook
group called Revolution in Montenegro, seeking the resignation of the government
and all parliament members.

The crowd shouted Thieves!, Resignations! and We want work!. They pledged to
demonstrate every day until their protests are met.

According to daily Vijesti, some 30 citizens gathered in front of the interior
ministry building on Sunday, Feb 16, protesting against the arrests. The police
had ordered 48-hour detention of the 20 arrested a day earlier. The
demonstrators asked the police to let free all those who had protested
peacefully.

The demonstrations were inspired by the recently started protests in
neighbouring Bosnia, where demonstrators set on fire several government
buildings on Feb 7 in anger against poverty, corruption and political inertia.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             836 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Poland Today

                            February 23, 2015 Monday

Polish farmer's fury falling on deaf ears

LENGTH: 586  words


Jan Cienski in Warsaw

Enraged Polish farmers have set up a protest in front of the prime minister's
office in central Warsaw and used tractors to block roads around the country as
they push the government on a raft of claims. However, public support has been
slow to come.

The protests bring back memories of a wave of rural strikes in the early 1990s.
Shock therapy economic reforms drove many farmers into bankruptcy, sparking
often-violent protests around the country. A political party - the populist
Self-Defence - was even formed.

However, this time around, protesting farmers are having difficulty galvanising
broad public support for their demands, which include help with damage caused to
crops by wild boars, changes to milk buying policies and preventing foreigners
from buying Polish farmland. That's largely because farmers have done extremely
well over the past decade.

A study shows that the monthly income of farmer's households more than doubled
since Poland joined the EU in 2004, rising from PLN2,298 ((EURO)552 at current
exchange rates) in 2004 to PLN5,044. However, the average worker has seen
monthly income rise from around the same level to no higher than PLN4,289.

Part of that is due to an enormous inflow of EU funds, which have transformed
the Polish countryside over the last decade. Poland is expected to get
(EURO)23.5bn in 2015-2020 for agriculture from the EU. Polish farmers get an
annual payment varying from (EURO)184 to (EURO)221 per hectare of farmland.

Farmers can also take advantage of a subsidised social security system. The
average farmer plays less than a third of what other workers pay in social
security taxes, with much of the rest being subsidised by the state. Last year,
the government paid PLN17bn into the designated rural pension and medical
schemes. On top of that, farmers are sitting on increasingly valuable property;
farmland has more than quadrupled in price in the last decade.

The results of all that cash could be seen as farmers drove gleaming tractors
costing more than (EURO)100,000 to blockade roads. "God have mercy peasants, get
a grip," Eugeniusz Klopotek, an MP from the Polish People's Party, which gets
most of its support in rural areas, told Poland's RMF radio. "Most Poles don't
earn as much as you do."

Slawomir Izdebski, a fiery farmer and politician who was once a senator from
Self-Defence (the party imploded in 2007) leads the protests. Although he has
galvanised a few thousand farmers at most, the demostrations are a political
problem for Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, whose government has already buckled this
year in the face of striking coal miners.

Unions sense Kopacz's vulnerability as she races the opposition Law and Justice
party for parliamentary elections this autumn. Izdebski has demanded Kopacz take
part in talks with farmers, saying "the crown won't fall off her head" if she
does.

Marek Sawicki, the agriculture minister who has been a favourite target of
Izdebski, says most of the farmers' demands have already been settled, including
compensation for hungry boars. Meanwhile, preventing foreigners buying farmland
- something that will be allowed by 2017 - or tweaking milk-buying schemes would
rub up against EU rules.

With the protests taking an increasingly political tone, Kopacz's position
appears to be hardening. "Certainly farmers are not going to choose ministers in
my government," she said recently, adding "demands being presented by protestors
and those blocking roads are demands that have no link to reality."


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             838 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Montenegro Today

                            November 8, 2015 Sunday

Montenegro prosecutors accuse opposition leaders of coup attempt

LENGTH: 588  words


Montenegro's Supreme State Prosecutor has accused two leaders of the opposition
Democratic Front (DF) of calling for the violent overthrow of the constitutional
order at an anti-government demonstration on October 24.

The Democratic Front, a coalition of opposition parties, has organised several
protests this autumn in an attempt to force Montenegro's Prime Minister Milo
Djukanovic to stand down. While several thousand people took part, polls show
the majority of Montenegrins do not back the protesters.

Parliament members Andrija Mandic and Slaven Radunovic were arrested late on
October 24 and accused of instigating the clashes between protesters and police
at the end of the demonstration. Protesters hurled stones and Molotov cocktails
at police, and around 40 people including 15 police officers were injured.

A brief note published on the prosecutor's website refers to  "actual evidence
for seeking a prior approval to institute criminal proceedings against MP's A.M.
and S.R. for the criminal offence of calling to a violent change of
constitutional order."

According to a document sent by the prosecutor to parliament speaker Ranko
Krivokapic and published by Portalanalitika.me on November 6, video recordings
show that Mandic and Radunovic were calling for Montenegro's constitutional
order to be changed by force.

The document quotes Mandic as telling protesters "tonight the thing must be done
to the end" and appealing on the police to stop protecting the main entrance of
the parliament and allow protesters to enter.

The prosecution also said that Radunovic had lied to the crowd, claiming that
Krivokapic has left the parliament building. The DF leader then said the
parliament speaker had ten minutes to meet the opposition's demands, after which
the protest organisers would not take any responsibility for the ensuing
actions. Immediately afterwards, Radunovic and several other protesters broke
through a protective fence and moved towards the parliament building, sparking
the clashes with police, according to the document.

On his Facebook page, Radunovic commented that the accusations were not true.

Montenegro's parliamentary administrative committee will discuss whether to
strip the two MPs of their immunity at a meeting on November 9, according to
broadcaster RTCG.

The DF comprises three opposition parties - New Serb Democracy (NOVA), Movement
for Changes (PzP) and Democratic Party of Unity (DSJ) - led by former diplomat
Miodrag Lekic. Its main goal is to overthrow Djukanovic's ruling Democratic
Party of Socialists of Montenegro (DPS), which has been in power since 1991.

A poll conducted by Damar polling agency prior to the protests showed that just
11.5% of Montenegrins believe that protests are the opposition's most effective
political tool. Most of those polled, 29.6%, think that the most effective
political tool is participation in elections.

However, the DF insists it will continue trying to oust Djukanovic, who has been
in power almost continuously since 1991, when he became the youngest prime
minister in Europe at the age of just 29. He later held the position of
president (between 1998 and 2002) and was again prime minister from 2003 to
2006, 2008 to 2010, and from December 2012 to the present.

The DF wants to organise another protest rally at the end of November, but
deputy parliament speaker Milutin Simovic said that, following the October 24
clashes, it is not realistic to expect that the party will get permission to
hold the demonstration, RTCG reported on November 6.


LOAD-DATE: November 09, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             839 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Montenegro Today

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday

Montenegro's administrative committee votes for stripping three opposition MPs
from immunity

LENGTH: 589  words


Montenegro's parliamentary administrative committee has decided at its session
on November 9 to recommend to the parliament to strip the immunity of three MPs
from the opposition Democratic Front (DF) as requested by the state prosecution.

The prosecution has requested the parliament to strip the immunity from two of
DF's leaders - Andrija Mandic and Slaven Radunovic on accusations that both have
called for the violent overthrow of the constitutional order at an
anti-government demonstration on October 24.

"The committee has unanimously decided [...] to propose to the parliament of
Montenegro to approve the launch of a criminal proceedings against Slaven
Radunovia and Andrija Mandic," the committee said in a statement on the
parliament's website.

The committee has also voted to propose the parliament to strip of immunity the
DF's MP Milan Knezevic who has been accused of attacking a policeman.

The Democratic Front, a coalition of opposition parties, has organised several
protests this autumn in an attempt to force Montenegro's Prime Minister Milo
Djukanovic to stand down.

Parliament members Andrija Mandic and Slaven Radunovic were arrested late on
October 24 and accused of instigating the clashes between protesters and police
at the end of the demonstration. Protesters hurled stones and Molotov cocktails
at police, and around 40 people including 15 police officers were injured.

A brief note published on the prosecutor's website referred to "actual evidence
for seeking a prior approval to institute criminal proceedings against MP's A.M.
and S.R. for the criminal offence of calling to a violent change of
constitutional order."

According to a document sent by the prosecutor to parliament speaker Ranko
Krivokapic and published by Portalanalitika.me on November 6, video recordings
show that Mandic and Radunovic were calling for Montenegro's constitutional
order to be changed by force.

The DF comprises three opposition parties - New Serb Democracy (NOVA), Movement
for Changes (PzP) and Democratic Party of Unity (DSJ) - led by former diplomat
Miodrag Lekic. Its main goal is to overthrow Djukanovic's ruling Democratic
Party of Socialists of Montenegro (DPS), which has been in power since 1991.

A poll conducted by Damar polling agency prior to the protests showed that just
11.5% of Montenegrins believe that protests are the opposition's most effective
political tool. Most of those polled, 29.6%, think that the most effective
political tool is participation in elections.

However, the DF insists it will continue trying to oust Djukanovic, who has been
in power almost continuously since 1991, when he became the youngest prime
minister in Europe at the age of just 29. He later held the position of
president (between 1998 and 2002) and was again prime minister from 2003 to
2006, 2008 to 2010, and from December 2012 to the present.

The DF said on November 9 that plans to organise another protest rally in
mid-November, Portalanalitika.me reported, quoting unofficial information. Last
week, the party has announced it plans the protest for the end of November, but
deputy parliament speaker Milutin Simovic said that, following the October 24
clashes, it is not realistic to expect that the party will get permission to
hold the demonstration. Portalanalitika.me quoted Mandic as saying that the
November 15 protest rally will be held under the motto "you are surrounded" and
that the participants will form a human chain around state institutions and
selected private firms. It provided no further details.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             840 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Poland Today

                             June 9, 2016 Thursday

VISEGRAD: V4 leaders struggle to paper over the cracks

LENGTH: 1305  words


The prime ministers of the Visegrad Four offered the usual platitudes on unity
as they took the stage at the Prague European Summit on June 8, but the bulk of
the comments only served to illustrate the continuing divisions.

The EU and the series of crises buffeting the bloc have come to utterly dominate
the agenda for Czechia, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. But far from promoting the
"solidarity" invoked at the event, the four are being pulled apart by the
problems plaguing the bloc and the resulting domestic political considerations.

While the Visegrad states insist that they have a common stance towards
Brussels, the evidence suggests anything but. Hungary and Poland are
increasingly forming a two-pronged force for `illiberal democracy' but Russia is
the elephant in the room whenever the pair meet. Splits within the V4 are also
clear on practically every other major issue on the EU table, including the
migrant crisis and energy security.

The only issue on which all appear to agree sincerely is that they don't want to
see the UK leave the bloc. Yet the four Central European states proved the major
obstacle to Prime Minister David Cameron's efforts earlier this year to clinch a
deal intended to tempt the British to remain.

This all only illustrates the vulnerability of these young democracies to the
rising wave of populism washing over the EU. The space for responsible and
far-sighted leadership has shrunk rapidly as the frustration of the region's
population over the slow catch-up of living standards with those further West
grows.

Still, the four continue to try to persuade themselves and the outside world
that the V4 is a viable coalition into which they can pool resources and
increase their leverage in Europe. And still, just about every time they get
together the cracks look as wide as ever.

Handing over the 12-month presidency of the group to Poland on June 8, Bohuslav
Sobotka demonstrated the antagonism from the off. The Czech PM is under constant
pressure at home from his populist coalition partner Ano and his bitter enemy
President Milos Zeman, and seems to have decided some months ago that the best
defence is to play the good cop for Brussels and the US.

Standing next to Hungary's Viktor Orban to deliver his opening remarks, Sobotka
called for "positivity" and a recognition of the successes in Brussels' response

 to its long list of crises. The glower of the champion of `illiberal democracy'
at Sobotka's side only deepened as the Czech leader warmed to his theme.

Migration is being over reported, the Czech leader claimed, and the European
project should not be distracted by the issue. Populism and nationalism are
bigger dangers, he warned. "Radicals come with easy solutions. Actors are using
unrealities and negativity to create divisions between member states and within
societies."

A good kicking

Undeterred, or perhaps provoked, by those apparent barbs, Polish Prime Minister
Beata Szydlo and Orban both proceeded to give the EU yet another good kicking.
Sobotka, meanwhile, spent the rest of the debate in silence, evidently aware of
his isolation.

Szydlo, busy fighting off efforts by the EU to force her government to end a
nasty constitutional crisis, spent her time grating against "Brussels' efforts
to take power over national sovereignty". EU institutions are elbowing one
another in a bid to prove themselves the most invasive, she claimed.

Orban, meanwhile, continued his quixotic campaign to attack the evils of the
European club. The Hungarian PM has been emboldened by the rise of rightwing
populists across the EU that have voiced support for his extreme views on
immigration, and as several commentators told bne IntelliNews recently, he now
believes he strides a larger stage than just his small Central European country.

Launching a typically gruff and somewhat bizarre rant, the Hungarian PM sought
to jump aboard the populist bandwagon challenging liberal democracy in the West,
as he declared the legitimacy of the "elite" that had launched the EU project in
the 1950s was over. "I will add to Mr Sobotka's list of crises," he scowled at
his host. "Now there is a crisis of economic legitimacy. Everything to the west
of us is cracking. Some call that kind of view populism, but it doesn't make it
any less true."

He moved on to stick the boot into the West and Nato. There is also a crisis of
foreign policy, which seeks to spread liberal democracy, he insisted. "It is a
heavily built concept in the minds of European leaders, but it has failed. Iraq,
Libya and Syria now don't exist - that foreign policy has broken all these
countries," the Hungarian PM claimed.

Szydlo, whose rabidly anti-Russian government is lobbying Nato hard to station
troops and weapons in the region, agreed that the EU's problems are all of its
own making, and that Visegrad is the only region ready to state that frankly.

The bloc should show "solidarity" the Polish PM insisted - apparently without
irony - with what she claimed is the most stable and economically dynamic region
in Europe. That all of Central Europe is hugely dependent on demand for its
exports out of the Eurozone - much maligned Germany most of all - was not
mentioned, nor were the billions in EU funding that flow into Visegrad each
year.

"We see no riots in the streets in Central Europe due to government decisions,"
Szydlo went on to proclaim - an apparent reference to clashes in France in
recent months -  which ignored  the huge demonstrations that have regularly
filled the streets of Polish cities since her Law & Justice government took
power in November.

Milk & pork

Meanwhile, whether the result of his party's surprise slump in the March
elections, or his recent major heart surgery, Slovakia's Robert Fico appeared
unsure of where he should now stand. Consequently, he drifted around in the
middle ground between Sobotka's pro-Western stance and the fury professed by
Poland and Hungary.

Indeed, as he warned that the EU faces "total fragmentation", the Slovak
populist looked shell-shocked as he asked how it was that neo-Nazi's had been
voted into the parliament in Bratislava. The PM appears genuinely bewildered how
his long pre-election campaign to denigrate migrants and Muslims backfired so
badly, and he's now apparently seeking a new position to market.

In stark contrast to Orban's attempt to promote himself as a geopolitical
arbiter, Fico mostly mumbled about populist routes to revive support for the EU.
"The EU discusses topics which are distant from the interests of our citizens,"
he complained. "Milk and pork are the ways to persuade the common man" of the
bloc's benefits.

The performance was not one to put to rest worries over the stability of the
Slovak government ahead of the country's takeover of the EU presidency on July
1. Poland's forthcoming leadership of the V4 is spurring nearly as much doubt it
seems.

Despite the splits in a regional coalition that has so often been written off
because of the self-interest and petty ambitions of its four members, Szydlo
insisted that under Poland's presidency over the next 12 months, the Visegrad
Four will "intensify" cooperation. That, she says, will bolster her claim that
the region is now the most fit to lead Europe.

A Polish government spokesman sought to clarify the aims. "The goals we want to
pursue during our presidency... are the strengthening of the role of the
Visegrad Group in the European Union, as well as strengthening cooperation on a
common energy, migration and economic policy," he claimed. On this evidence,
that will prove no small challenge.

Indeed, several analysts suggested at the end of the event that with the passing
of the Czech presidency, and its attempts to play a moderating role, the signs
are that the V4, like its pronounced nemesis headquartered in Brussels, only
risks further fragmentation.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             842 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Hungary This Week

                                 June 30, 2015

Hungarian police use tear gas to stop fight at migrant camp

LENGTH: 274  words


Hungarian police used tear gas to break up clashes among hundreds of refugees at
a camp in the eastern city of Debrecen, local media reported late on June 29.

The unrest at the cramped camp spilled out into the streets. That saw over 150
riot police attend. One police officer was hit by a rock and suffered
superficial wounds.

The camp has been sealed off temporarily, with migrants not allowed to leave,
MTI reports. Designed to hold 823 people, Debrecen camp currently hosts 1,655.

Hungary has become a popular point of entry into the European Union in the past
year with tens of thousands of migrants arriving from the Balkans. Hungary
received more asylum-seekers per capita than any other EU country apart from
Sweden in 2014.

The total number of first time applications made in the country rose to nearly
43,000, compared with just 2,000 in 2012. So far this year, another 60,000
migrants have entered Hungary, most of them through Serbia, according to
government figures.

Meanwhile, the influx has been seized upon by Prime Minister Viktor Orban and
his Fidesz government. Facing a sharp slide in polls, the populist PM has been
stepping steadily to the right as the extremist Jobbik party gains in
popularity.

That has seen Budapest conduct a poster and questionaire campaign criticised for
linking aylum seekers with terrorism and unemployment. Meanwhile, Hungary
announced in mid-June plans to build a fence on its southern border with Serbia.

At a recent EU summit, Hungary and Bulgaria were granted exemption from a
voluntary plan to redistribute 40,000 migrants within the bloc. Orban had
earlier called the plan for resettlement "insanity".


LOAD-DATE: July 03, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             844 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Hungary This Week

                                August 27, 2015

Hungary mulls military solution to migrant crisis

LENGTH: 293  words


The Hungarian government could deploy the army to help stem the flow of illegal
migrants crossing its southern border, officials said on August 26.

"Illegal migrants are becoming increasingly aggressive, we cannot tolerate what
happened in Roszke, we cannot accept this aggression," Szilard Nemeth, deputy
head of the National Security parliamentary committee, told a news conference.
The remarks came after police fired tear gas at the Roszke migrant centre near
the Serbian border when some 200 migrants refused to be fingerprinted and tried
to force an exit.

Using troops to assist the policing of the border would need parliamentary
approval, spokesman Zoltan Kovacs told Reuters. Lawmakers are expected to debate
the issue next week, he added.

Hungarian police announced the detainment of over 2,500 illegal migrants on
August 25, the highest daily figure on record. Most of those trying to enter the
country were part of a wave of 7,000 asylum seekers whose journey to the EU was
blocked last week by Macedonia. Refugees are now making their way across Serbia
to Hungary, before moving on to the likes of Germany, Sweden and the UK.

Hungary now serves as an entry point to the EU's passport-free Schengen zone.
More than 130,000 refugees have arrived in the country so far this year, mainly
from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. The country says it expects 300,000 this year,
versus just 43,000 in 2014.

To cope with the rising number of migrants, Hungary has embarked on a number of
controversial measures. It is building a 175km fence on its border with Serbia,
scheduled to be finished by the end of August. The government has also pushed
through legislation tightening asylum laws and making illegal border crossing
punishable by up to four years in prison.


LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             846 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                       Intellinews - Czech Republic Today

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday

EU calls on Czech Republic to end segregation of Roma children in schools

LENGTH: 285  words


The European Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) has expressed
concern over the lack of progress in eradicating segregation of Roma children in
Czech schools and the prevalence of anti-Roma hate speech in political
discourse, it said in a report published on October 13.

"The continued discrimination of Roma, in particular of Roma children, is a
serious concern. I call on the Czech Republic to make a change and act upon our
experts´ recommendations," Council of Europe Secretary General Thorbjorn Jagland
said.

According to ECRI, the strategies for Roma integration and for combating social
exclusion have had little effect. It expressed concern that many "only-Roma"
schools continue to exist in the country, providing a reduced curriculum and
lower quality education.

The commission expressed particular concern about the 26 violent anti-Roma
demonstrations organised by right-wing extremist groups throughout 2013. They
all involved inflammatory speech, intimidating marches in Roma neighbourhoods,
rioting and serious clashes with the police.

Roma and immigrants are the most common targets of hate speech and Muslims have
recently become victims of increased Islamophobia, according to the report.
Criminal action is ruled out too easily and the hate speech provisions are
rarely applied, ECRI notes.

At the same time, the commission has noted some positive developments such as
the enactment of the Anti-Discrimination Act in 2009, the designation of the
Public Defender of Rights as the Czech Republic's equal treatment and
anti-discrimination body and the drawing up of a strategy for combating
extremism. As a result, extremists are currently less radical and less visible,
ECRI points out.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             847 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Hungary This Week

                                 March 16, 2016

Political clashes mark Hungarian holiday

LENGTH: 525  words


Government opponents and supporters clashed in Hungary on March 15, as
protestors against Prime Minister Viktor Orban sought to turn the spotlight onto
problems in the education and health sectors. Meanwhile the premier returned to
his favoured topic: bashing the EU over the migrant crisis.

The protestors appear inspired by events next door in Slovakia, and hope to
weaken support for Orban's Fidesz government by pushing problems in health and
education into the spotlight. However, while the issue clearly has the potential
to gain traction, Hungary is not scheduled to hold any major election until
2018.

More than 10,000 turned out on a rainy day in Budapest to protest against
education reforms on the second day of a 48-hour national holiday. It was the
biggest demonstration against Orban since 2014, claims Reuters, when mass
demonstrations forced Fidesz to back down on plans to tax internet use.

Healthcare workers reportedly joined the crowd, which also included civic groups
and opposition figures. There were minor clashes and some arrests as the
demonstrators were confronted by government supporters.

Two other protests have taken place this year over the reform, which unions say
overburden teachers and restrict textbooks. The cause has attracted a wide array
of opponents to Orban's authoritarian government, however, which critics accuse
of using its constitutional majority to push back democracy.

Opponents have seen the impact of health and education protests across the
country's northern border. In Slovakia, populist Prime Minister Robert Fico ran
a recent campaign echoing Orban's focus on immigration. However, despite signs
of rising support in recent months, Fico's Smer party slumped in March 5
elections, and is now having to scrape together a broad coalition to cling onto
power.

The focus on migrants, meanwhile, ushered a pair of far right parties into
parliament in Bratislava. Fidesz' closest opposition is the far right Jobbik.

The rise of the right in Hungary pushed the PM into the immigration debate early
in 2015, before the migrant crisis hit the headlines in the late spring. The
hardening of the stance of other EU states has led Orban to grow in confidence
and feel that he strides a larger stage than just Hungary, analysts tell bne
IntelliNews.

The teacher's protests appear to be a real threat, and polls suggest they have
hit Fidesz support.  The PM -  a past master at playing to the gallery at home -
therefore returned to his favourite theme of EU bashing, which he has found
usually goes down especially well.

He used his speech on the anniversary of a 19th century revolt against the
Hapsburgs to try to push the migrant issue back onto the front pages. The PM
claimed Brussels' efforts to accept migrants from trouble spots such as Syria
and Afghanistan is a wider plot to build a "United States of Europe" and
suppress nation states.

"We cannot let Brussels put itself above the law," Orban demanded. "We will not
import crime, terrorism, homophobia and a brand of anti-Semitism that sets
synagogues ablaze ... there will be no outlaw districts, no riots and no gangs
hunting for our wives and daughters."


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             848 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Hungary Today

                            March 16, 2016 Wednesday

Political clashes mark Hungarian holiday

LENGTH: 525  words


Government opponents and supporters clashed in Hungary on March 15, as
protestors against Prime Minister Viktor Orban sought to turn the spotlight onto
problems in the education and health sectors. Meanwhile the premier returned to
his favoured topic: bashing the EU over the migrant crisis.

The protestors appear inspired by events next door in Slovakia, and hope to
weaken support for Orban's Fidesz government by pushing problems in health and
education into the spotlight. However, while the issue clearly has the potential
to gain traction, Hungary is not scheduled to hold any major election until
2018.

More than 10,000 turned out on a rainy day in Budapest to protest against
education reforms on the second day of a 48-hour national holiday. It was the
biggest demonstration against Orban since 2014, claims Reuters, when mass
demonstrations forced Fidesz to back down on plans to tax internet use.

Healthcare workers reportedly joined the crowd, which also included civic groups
and opposition figures. There were minor clashes and some arrests as the
demonstrators were confronted by government supporters.

Two other protests have taken place this year over the reform, which unions say
overburden teachers and restrict textbooks. The cause has attracted a wide array
of opponents to Orban's authoritarian government, however, which critics accuse
of using its constitutional majority to push back democracy.

Opponents have seen the impact of health and education protests across the
country's northern border. In Slovakia, populist Prime Minister Robert Fico ran
a recent campaign echoing Orban's focus on immigration. However, despite signs
of rising support in recent months, Fico's Smer party slumped in March 5
elections, and is now having to scrape together a broad coalition to cling onto
power.

The focus on migrants, meanwhile, ushered a pair of far right parties into
parliament in Bratislava. Fidesz' closest opposition is the far right Jobbik.

The rise of the right in Hungary pushed the PM into the immigration debate early
in 2015, before the migrant crisis hit the headlines in the late spring. The
hardening of the stance of other EU states has led Orban to grow in confidence
and feel that he strides a larger stage than just Hungary, analysts tell bne
IntelliNews.

The teacher's protests appear to be a real threat, and polls suggest they have
hit Fidesz support.  The PM -  a past master at playing to the gallery at home -
therefore returned to his favourite theme of EU bashing, which he has found
usually goes down especially well.

He used his speech on the anniversary of a 19th century revolt against the
Hapsburgs to try to push the migrant issue back onto the front pages. The PM
claimed Brussels' efforts to accept migrants from trouble spots such as Syria
and Afghanistan is a wider plot to build a "United States of Europe" and
suppress nation states.

"We cannot let Brussels put itself above the law," Orban demanded. "We will not
import crime, terrorism, homophobia and a brand of anti-Semitism that sets
synagogues ablaze ... there will be no outlaw districts, no riots and no gangs
hunting for our wives and daughters."


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             853 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 11, 2015 Saturday

USPTO grants trade mark "DON'T SETTLE FOR A REACTION. INCITE A RIOT!" to Riot
Fishing (NEW JERSEY)

LENGTH: 46  words

DATELINE: Alexandria


Riot Fishing (NEW JERSEY), has been granted trademark (4715888) titled as "DON'T
SETTLE FOR A REACTION. INCITE A RIOT!" from the United States Patent and
Trademark Office.

Status: Registered

Class/es: IC 028. US 022 023 038 050. G & S: Fishing lures. FIRST USE: 20140315.

Filing

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             854 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                          September 12, 2013 Thursday

Turkish government may finalise works on reforms package this week.

LENGTH: 298  words


The government hopes to finalise works on a package of reforms on Friday and its
details will be announced later by PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Deputy PM Besir
Atalay said on Wednesday.

Senior cabinet members and government officials met on Wednesday to discuss the
reform package. Erdogan chaired the meeting. The government's works on the
so-called democratisation package is not only related to the peace process with
the PKK but it also addresses the problems of different segments of the society,
Atalay said without providing details.

The PKK announced on Monday that its militants had halted their pull-out from
Turkish soil, citing the government's failure to take agreed steps under a peace
deal. The PKK, however, will continue to respect the ceasefire, the group said.

The PKK declared a ceasefire in March and started to withdraw its militants from
Turkey in May. In return, the PKK is demanding wider constitutional and other
rights for Turkey's Kurds. The PKK on Monday urged the government to pass a
package of democratic reforms. The PKK's demands include amendments to the penal
code (so that jailed Kurdish activists will be freed), the right to education in
Kurdish, and more powers for local governments.

Meanwhile police and anti-government protesters clashed for a third night in
Turkish cities, including Istanbul and Ankara. The death of a 22-year-old
activist in the south-eastern city of Antakya on Monday sparked the protests.

Officials said the activist's death was the result of a fall from a roof during
an anti-government demonstration however the protesters claim he was killed by a
police tear gas capsule fired at his head.

The fresh protests are on a smaller scale than the country witnessed in June but
they once again underline a deep polarisation in the country.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             855 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            December 23, 2013 Monday

24 people arrested in Turkey's high-profile corruption probe.

LENGTH: 286  words


24 people, including sons of Interior Minister and Economy Minister, and
Suleyman Aslan, general manager of Turkey's largest state-owned lender Halkbank,
has been arrested after they questioned by the police while the remaining 33
people detained by the police, including son of Environment Minister and mayor
of Istanbul's Fatih district, has been released.

More 25 police chiefs have been removed from their posts. More than 70 police
officers has been sacked or removed from their posts, including Istanbul police
chief, Huseyin Capkin, since the beginning of the corruption probe.

Erdogan named "dirty hands" those launched the operations against his
government, and accused international groups. Some pro-government newspapers
addressed the US embassy which encourages the moves against Halkbank and Erdogan
warned that the government may expel some foreign diplomats. Erdogan underlined
that his government will fight against the threats to its rule.

Thousands of people took to the streets to support Erdogan government while
another group of thousands of people took to the streets to protest the
government's attitudes against the probe. Police fired teargas and water cannon
against the protestors.

The pro-government media says the Gulen movement, led by the US-based Islamic
preacher Fethullah Gulen, is orchestrating the corruption probe aimed at
tarnishing the government. Critics say members of the Gulen movement have
infiltrated Turkey's police force and judiciary, holding key positions in these
services. Gulen was a close ally of Erdogan and he supported the AKP when it
came to power in 2002. But recently ideological differences emerged and the rift
between the Gulen movement and the AKP has widened.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             856 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            April 2, 2014 Wednesday

Turkey's opposition party CHP calls for recount of votes in Istanbul.

LENGTH: 171  words


The main opposition party CHP's Istanbul candidate Mustafa Sarigul called for a
recount of votes in Istanbul, saying that there were irregularities. Sarigul
lost the race in Istanbul against the ruling AKP's candidate, incumbent mayor
Kadir Topbas.

The Supreme Election Board (YSK) has not yet announced any official results.
Sarigul got 38.61% of the votes in Istanbul, Topbas won 47.92%, according to
Turkish media. CHP's Ankara candidate also demanded a partial recount.

Riot police used water cannon on Tuesday to disperse the supporters of CHP,
demanding a recount in national polls. Protesters, who gathered outside the YSK
headquarters, claimed fraud in Sunday's elections. According to unofficial
results, the ruling AKP won 45.4% of the nationwide vote and the CHP got 27.8%.
Even if the CHP wins in Istanbul and Ankara after a recount (which looks
unlikely) this will not have a significant effect on overall election results,
in terms of vote share. But, if proven, vote-rigging would be an embarrassment
for the AKP.


LOAD-DATE: April 02, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             857 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Death toll rises to 274 in Turkish mine disaster, protesters clash with police
in Istanbul.

LENGTH: 234  words


The death toll in a coal mine explosion in the western town of Soma have risen
to 274 while hopes are fading for around 100 miners still trapped in the mine.
This is the worst industrial accident in Turkey's history.

Anger erupted in Soma and other cities as the death toll rose. Thousands of
protesters angry at the mine disaster clashed with riot police in Turkey's major
cities Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir. Protesters accused the government of
negligence.

PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan visited the site of the disaster but he faced protests
there. A group of locals booed the PM and chanted slogans calling for the
resignation of Erdogan. Erdogan tried to talk with the locals after a press
meeting, but as tension grew the PM had to seek refuge in a supermarket. The
reason for the outrage is Erdogan's comments at the press conference that such
accidents are natural and work-related accidents have happened all the time.
Pro-government newspapers do not cover the protests in Soma. Newspapers reported
that local headquarters of the ruling AKP in Soma was attacked by a group of
angry locals. The leader of the main opposition party CHP, Kemal Kilicdaroglu,
was also in Soma but he also faced protests. Trade unions have announced a
one-day strike on Thursday in protest. Unions argue that the privatisation of
the mining industry made the working conditions more dangerous. The Soma mine
was privatised in 2005.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             858 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              May 16, 2014 Friday

Death toll rises to 284 in Turkey' coal mine disaster.

LENGTH: 247  words


The death toll in Turkey's worst mining disaster increased to 284, energy
minister Taner Yildiz said Thursday but he did not give information about how
many more miners are still trapped in the coal mine in the town of Soma in
western Turkey.

The government has promised an investigation into the accident and vowed to
bring those responsible to account but the disaster in Soma is now becoming a
political issue as the public's anger is building. Trade unions held a one-day
nationwide protest strike and protesters clashed with police in Istanbul on
Thursday.

Erdogan, who visited the town earlier this week, was heckled by a hostile crowd
and he had to seek refuge in a supermarket. On Thursday, a video emerged showing
that Erdogan allegedly slapped a resident of Soma in that supermarket. The man
told a news channel that PM's bodyguards also punched him. Pro-government media
did not cover this story and the coverage in other media outlets were limited.
One of Erdogan's advisers, Yusuf Yerkel, also sparked outrage after he was
captured on cameras kicking a mourner in Soma as the mourner was wrestled to the
ground by police officers. The adviser admitted kicking the person and
apologized but said that he was provoked and insulted.

Turkey could see a new wave of protests in the coming days. The government is
under fire over the Soma disaster that added pressure on Erdogan just two weeks
before the first anniversary of the start of mass anti-government protests last
summer.


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             859 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - Asia Today

                              May 16, 2014 Friday

Taiwan's financial sector faces huge risk in Vietnam

LENGTH: 74  words


Taiwan's financial sector faces huge risk in Vietnam. According to Tseng
Ming-chung, chairman of the Financial Supervisory Commission, the risk exposure
of the country's financial institutions operating in Vietnam amounts to TWD
79.3bn.

The Vietnam's anti-China riots had been escalating, with violent masses
numbering in the thousands marauding through factories supposed to be
China-owned, with many Taiwanese facilities caught in the cross fire.


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             860 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

Eight people arrested over Turkish mine disaster.

LENGTH: 230  words


Eight people, including the CEO of the mine operator and general manager of the
company, have been arrested in a probe into the last week's mine disaster in the
western town of Soma that left 301 people dead, Turkey's worst ever industrial
accident.

Police detained 25 people but 17 suspects were released later. The disaster has
sparked protests across the country including Soma, Istanbul and Ankara where
protesters clashed with the police. Opposition blames the government for the
disaster, demanding the resignation of the energy minister. Trade unions have
claimed that the privatisation of the mining industry made the working
conditions more dangerous. The Soma mine was privatised in 2005.

Energy minister Taner Yildiz said more than 400 miners were rescued however
opposition and some newspapers question the reliability of the numbers provided
by Yildiz. Police set up checkpoints in Soma and protests are banned in the
town. PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan remained defiant, and defended his government
response to the accident. Meanwhile, a deputy from the main opposition party
CHP, Sabahat Akkiraz, has presented her resignation to the CHP leader in protest
over the government's attitude regarding the mine disaster. Another lawmaker
from CHP, Safak Pavey, has called for mass resignation. CHP leader Kemal
Kilicdaroglu has not yet commented on the calls for mass resignation.


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             861 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

One killed, nine people injured in Istanbul as protesters clash with police.

LENGTH: 254  words


A man was shot in the head and killed in Istanbul's Okmeydani district on
Thursday as protesters clashed with police.

Security forces tried to disperse a group of youth denouncing the government's
response to the deaths of 301 miners last week and a clash broke out as
protesters threw stones and petrol bombs. However, the man, who was shot in the
head, was not part of the protest and reportedly was attending a funeral at a
nearby place of worship of Alevi religious minority. The incident sparked
further violence in the district that is home to many Alevis and in some other
parts of the city. Clashes continued later in Okmeydani and at least nine people
were injured, including seven policemen, as protestors hurled homemade bombs.

Turkey's Alevis have long complained about PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan's what they
call offensive remarks about the religious minority. The latest incident in
Okmeydani came just days before Erdogan's planned visit to Germany. Erdogan will
attend a rally in the German city of Cologne on May 24 to address around 20,000
AKP supporters. German police sources said that the opponents of Erdogan,
including Alevi groups in Germany, are also planning a protest against the
event.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on Erdogan to be restrained in a speech
he will deliver in Cologne, Reuters reported. Merkel reportedly said that
Erdogan has often made such appearances in Germany and she assumes Erdogan knows
how sensitive this event is, especially this time, and that he will act
responsibly.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             862 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - Asia Today

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Vietnam's export declines by 29.9% m/m in the first half of May

LENGTH: 89  words


Vietnam's exports declined by 29.9% m/m recording USD 5.1bn in the first half of
May this year, with cumulative exports of USD 51.59bn, while the decline was due
to due to riots hit. According to the General Department of Vietnam Customs, the
nation's imports expanded 2.3% m/m posting USD 6.1bn during the period, with
cumulative imports of USD 50.66bn, while the foreign trade registered a deficit
of USD 1bn.

A total of USD 4.6bn is estimated to be disbursed for foreign direct investment
(FDI) projects in the nation during the period.


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             863 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 10, 2014 Friday

Fresh clashes erupt in Turkish cities, death toll from Kurdish unrest continues
to rise.

LENGTH: 206  words


Fresh clashes erupted on Thursday, mostly in Turkey's eastern provinces, as
thousands of Kurds continued to take to the streets to protest what they see as
the government's inaction on Kobane.

The Syrian Kurdish town of Kobane has been under sieged by the Islamic State
(also known as ISIS and ISIL) for the last three weeks. Turkey's Kurds demand
the Turkish government help the Syrian Kurdish militia, the YPD, fighting
against ISIS militants in the town.

In the fourth day of the protests, death toll rose to 35, the Hurriyet newspaper
reported. On Thursday alone, more than 10 people were killed, including one
local deputy police chief and a police officer in the city of Bingol. The city's
police chief was also seriously wounded.

The newspapers also report that pro-Kurdish protesters clashed with nationalists
and radical Islamists. In the eastern province of Gaziantep, clashes between
Kurds and groups opposing them left four people dead, more than 20 wounded. This
is a worrying development as it shows the rising ethnical tension which can
spiral out control.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday labelled the protests as an attempt
to derail the delicate peace process between the government and the Kurdish
armed group PKK.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             864 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 13, 2014 Monday

Kurdish rebels say they will end peace talks with Turkish government if Ankara
does not help Syrian Kurds.

LENGTH: 142  words


The PKK will end peace talks with the Turkish government if Ankara continues to
refuse to help the Syrian militia battling against ISIS militants in the
northern Syrian town of Kobane, Cemil Bayik, a senior PKK commander said.

The PKK called all its fighters back to Turkey and could resume attacks, Bayik
told the German TV channel ARD. The PKK commander also held the Turkish
government responsible for the deaths of pro-Kurdish protesters in recent
demonstrations. PKK militants will re-launch their war to protect Kurdish
people, Bayik said.

At least 40 people, including two police officers, were killed in the clashes
last week in Turkey's mostly Kurdish provinces when pro-Kurdish protestors took
to the streets to protest the Turkish government's inaction over Kobane.
Pro-Kurdish protesters clashed with police, nationalist and radical Islamists.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             865 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 14, 2014 Tuesday

Turkish government submits road map for peace talks to Kurdish party.

LENGTH: 174  words


The government has submitted a draft road map for peace talks with the PKK to
the main Kurdish party HDP after a wave of violent protests last week in
Turkey's predominantly Kurdish provinces left dozens of people dead. Protesters
took to the streets after the government refused to help the Syrian Kurdish
group, the YPD, battling with ISIS militant in the Syrian town of Kobane, near
the Turkish border.

The HDP received a draft road map, the main Kurdish party's parliamentary deputy
group chairman, Idris Baluken, told reporters on Monday, without providing
details. The PKK's imprisoned leader Abdullah Ocalan has set a deadline of
October 15 for the government to make clear proposals that would take peace
talks forward.

Cemil Bayik, one of PKK's senior field commanders, said last week that the PKK
would end peace talks if the government continued to refuse to help the YPG, the
armed wing of the PKK's sister organisation PYD in Syria. The PKK called all its
fighters back to Turkey and could resume attacks, Bayik told a German TV
channel.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             866 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 17, 2014 Friday

Turkey protests preface wider problems if Kurdish peace talks break down

LENGTH: 1500  words


Turkey's government is under mounting pressure from the country's Kurds to help
the Syrian Kurdish militia in its battle against Islamic State in the northern
Syrian town of Kobani. But Ankara's refusal to fight IS and its complicated
policies toward its estimated 15mn Kurdish population are threatening the
already fragile peace process with Turkey's Kurdish militant organization, the
PKK, and October's violent clashes in the Kurdish south-east could be just a
prelude to what will happen if peace talks with the PKK totally break down.

The Turkish government has now presented a draft roadmap for peace talks to end
the conflict that has claimed more than 40,000 lives in three decades to Kurdish
MPs, just days ahead of the October 15 deadline set by the jailed PKK leader
Abdullah Ocalan, who has warned that if there is no action from the government
he will consider the peace process dead. The government could face a serious
backlash from Kurds if the already fragile peace talks break down, worry
observers.

Turkey's Kurds are angry for what they see as the Turkish government's
calculated inaction over the IS (also known as ISIS or ISIL) threat against the
Syrian border town of Kobani, where their kin live. IS attacked and besieged the
town on September 16, forcing tens of thousands of Syrian Kurds to flee across
the border to Turkey. Air strikes by the US-led coalition over the past two
weeks have hit IS positions around Kobani, but so far to little effect.

Already frustrated by the slow and uncertain pace of peace talks between the
government and the PKK, Turkey's Kurds regard the IS attack on Kobani as a
tipping point. With the town's fate hangind in the balance, thousands of Turkish
Kurds took to the streets in the south-eastern part of the country between
October 6 and October 11 in solidarity with the people of Kobani and to protest
against the Turkish government's decision not to intervene.

These protests later spread to other major cities, including Istanbul, where
there is a sizeable Kurdish population, the capital Ankara and Izmir as well.
The situation later became more inflamed as Kurds clashed with Turkish
nationalists, radical Islamists and the police. Nationalist groups attacked the
offices of the main Kurdish party HDP in districts of Istanbul.

The government responded by imposing curfews for the first time in more than two
decades in the six predominantly Kurdish cities, including Diyarbakir, the
largest in the region. In five days, the death toll rose to at least 35,
including two police officers.

Anger and frustration

Turkey's Kurds are angry and frustrated for several reasons. They see a cynical
political calculation by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan that if Kobani falls to
IS, Kurdish hopes for an autonomous enclave in Northern Syria will go up in
smoke. Kurds believe Ankara is indirectly supporting IS militants to weaken and
thus force the Syrian Kurdish militia, the YPG, to join other Syrian opposition
groups, which would end dreams of an autonomous homeland like the one their
brethren enjoy in Northern Iraq.

The PKK's jailed leader Ocalan and senior PKK field commanders have warned that
the fall of Kobani would mean the end of the peace process.

The YPG (Peoples' Protection Units) is the armed wing of the PKK's sister
organisation PYD (Democratic Union Party) in Syria. A victory by the YPG against
IS militants - when other armed opposition groups in Syria are weak and in
disarray - would be a moral victory for the PKK. This is not something Turkey's
Justice and Development Party-led (AKP) government - which still calls the PKK a
"terrorist organisation" and a threat to Turkey's national security - could
stomach, as it prefers a weak PKK at the negotiating table. President Erdogan,
who says openly the PKK is as dangerous as IS, argues that arms and supplies to
be delivered to the YPG could end up in the hands of PKK militants. Through
peace negotiations, Ankara hopes to disarm the PKK.

Erdogan also argues that airstrikes alone will not be enough to stop IS.
Instead, he has proposed a buffer zone and a no-fly zone in Northern Syria.
Ankara's argument is that as long as Bashar al-Assad remains in power, bloodshed
in Syria will continue and radical Islamists will grow stronger. But the
Pentagon makes it clear that the main focus right now is to stop the advance of
the IS and roll it back, but a buffer zone is not on the table as a military
option.

Roadmap to peace or path to civil war?

Meanwhile, peace talks between the government and PKK are going nowhere, with
critics saying there is neither any clear timetable nor well-defined objectives
on the negotiating table.

PKK leader Ocalan called for a ceasefire in March 2013 that had been largely
observed by the two sides until this week, when Turkish warplanes attacked PKK
targets in southeast Turkey on October 13 - the first since the start of the
peace process - following an attack by PKK militants on a military outpost. The
PKK's military wing claimed that the Turkish military violated the ceasefire,
though it has not yet said whether or how it would respond.

After the violent street protests, the government on October 13 presented a
draft roadmap for peace talks to Kurdish lawmakers from the HDP, just days ahead
of the October 15 deadline set by Ocalan. The PKK leader said he would wait
until October 15 for the government to act, otherwise he would consider the
peace process dead.

The MPs have seen only a one-page draft of the government's proposal, HDP
Parliamentary Deputy Group Chair Idris Baluken was reported by Hurriyet Daily
News saying on October 12, adding that the government is still yet to share its
plans on democratisation and resolving the Kurdish issue through legislation.

While the government is extending an olive branch to Kurds with one hand, with
the other it's threatening them with tough measures. "It is no longer possible
for our police and soldiers to stop protesters with riot shields. Both the
police and soldiers will do what is necessary," Erdogan was quoted by Today's
Zaman as saying on October 10.

Echoing Erdogan's remarks, PM Ahmet Davutoglu said, without elaborating, that
the government would take tougher measures to avoid street violence and
vandalism. However, he also reiterated the government's commitment to the peace
process.

But the HDP's Baluken warned: "Tougher measures will only fuel tensions, and may
even lead to chaos and civil war."

Despite the slow progress and disappointments on the Kurdish side, the PKK's
Ocalan appeared eager to continue with the peace process. The HDP's co-chairman,
Selahattin Demirtas, read out a message on October 14 from Ocalan sent at the
height of the protests. In his message, Ocalan called on the HDP to contact
government officials to end the violence and street protests.

Yet the mood in Kurdish cities is rather different. "If Kobani falls, the peace
process will be history. And if Kobani falls, the people will not listen to
calls for calm, from whomever they come," a local resident of Diyarbakir told
Reuters on October 13.

Investors' reaction to the protests has so far been limited. But the fallout
from a possible breakdown of peace talks on Turkey's economy could be mserious
over the medium term. Turkey's growth already slowed to 2.1% year on year in the
second quarter from 4.7% in the first quarter. The government has cut its GDP
growth forecast for 2014 to 3.3% from a previous 4% and the forecast for 2015 to
4% from a previous 5%. Investor sentiment looks set to worsen and consumer
confidence will take a hit if the PKK decides pull out from peace talks.

Walking a tightrope

It is too early to say that Turkey is poised to go back to the bad old days,
when almost on a daily basis newspapers would report clashes in the Kurdish
provinces, scores of young soldiers were sent home in body bags, hundreds of
young Kurds were killed in the mountains, nationalist sentiments were running
high and a military solution was seen as the only answer to the country's
Kurdish problem.

Erdogan is now walking a very thin line as he tries to achieve different and
difficult objectives at the same time: the ousting of Assad, while containing
the PKK in Turkey and Kurdish dreams of an autonomous region in Syria. The
breakdown of peace talks could be a casualty of the fall of Kobani.

One of Turkey's prominent intellectuals, Murat Belge, who in the past has
supported Erdogan for his Kurdish peace initiative, recently suggested in an
interview with the Taraf newspaper that Erdogan would do anything to stay in
power and his polarising policies could lead to civil war in Turkey.

Perhaps talk of a civil war is overblown, but given the recent deadly violence
and Kurds' distrust of Ankara, it is difficult to see how the government can
regain the confidence of the Kurds if Erdogan maintains his tough stance. It is
also likely that if violence escalates in Turkey and peace talks fail, Erdogan
could become more authoritarian and a less tolerant country will emerge.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             867 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Turkish PM vows to wipe out PKK militants, buildings of Kurdish party HDP
attacked

LENGTH: 483  words


PM Ahmet Davutoglu vowed to wipe out the Kurdistan Workers' Party (the PKK)
militants from their mountain strongholds after 16 soldiers were killed in a
single attack on Sunday in the Daglica province near the Iraqi border. Meanwhile
violence escalated on the streets of Turkey on September 7 as crowds protesting
the killings of the soldiers attacked buildings of the main Kurdish party HDP's
regional branches in a number of cities. Private TV channel IMC claims that a
total of 126 buildings were attacked. Tension was running high in Ankara's
Beypazari district on Monday night as protesters, reportedly, attacked Kurdish
workers there.

Sunday's attack on security forces and street violence on Monday highlight the
fragility of the situation at a time when Turkey is headed toward crucial
elections on November 1. More than 80 security personnel have been killed by the
PKK in the southeast of the country since a ceasefire collapsed in July. Even
though there is no accurate information on the casualties on the PKK side,
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan recently said 2,000 PKK militants had been
killed.

The attack in Daglica was the deadliest since violence resurfaced between the
security forces and the PKK. The army said its jets launched airstrikes against
23 PKK targets around Daglica following the attack. Sabah newspaper reported
that 75 PKK militants were killed.

The mountains of this country, and cities will not be abandoned to terrorists,
said PM Davutoglu whose ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) lost its
parliamentary majority in the June elections for the first time since 2002.
President Erdogan called for fresh elections after Davutoglu's efforts failed to
form a working government. The government says operations will continue until
the PKK withdraws its militants from Turkish soil or lay down arms. The PKK is
designated a terrorist organisation by the U.S and EU. The government and
Erdogan accuse the HDP of being the political front to the PKK.

The Turkish economy suffers from the renewed clashes. The lira touched a new
all-time low against the dollar on Monday. The local currency has been under
pressure, especially after the June's inconclusive elections, with no respite in
sight and the country's economy is one of the most vulnerable among emerging
economies to capital outflows. TRY was down 0.97% in early Tuesday, trading at
3.0315 against the dollar at 8am local time. Turkey's GDP growth slowed to 2.3%
y/y in the first quarter of 2015 from 2.6% in the fourth quarter of 2014.
According to a recent Reuters poll of economist, GDP is expected to grow by
3.45% y/y in the second quarter, while economists forecast a full-year growth of
2.9%.  Consumer confidence already hit its lowest in more than six years in
August, while the real sector confidence index declined from 105.4 in July to
103.7 in August. PMI fell from 50.1 in July to 49.3 in August.



LOAD-DATE: September 08, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             868 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           September 28, 2015 Monday

ISTANBUL BLOG: Turkey needs political stability to reignite growth

LENGTH: 2446  words


The Turkish economy is feeling the effects of the country's escalating violence
and political instability at a time when it should be benefiting from tumbling
oil prices. The Turkish lira has already lost more than 20% of its value against
the dollar this year, consumer confidence has hit rock bottom, unemployment
hovers around 10%, exports are falling, the current account deficit - though
declining - is still large, and inflation is stubbornly high at 7%.

Amid the current emerging market turbulence, Turkey is now seen as one of the
most vulnerable to a mooted rate hike by the US Federal Reserve (now probably
delayed until the new year) and the reversal of capital flows that would bring.

Rocked by increasing domestic civil unrest and under pressure from the Islamic
State terrorist threat just over its border, Turkey desperately needs some
political stability to reignite growth of the $800bn economy. But surveys
suggest that the snap elections in November will produce yet another hung
parliament, raising doubts about a return to high economic growth any time soon.

Reflecting investors' perception of risks weighing on the economy, Turkey's
five-year credit default swaps (CDS) by September 23 had almost doubled to 293bp

 from 184 basis points (bp) on January 1.

Amid the current political deadlock, the flare-up in violence in the Kurdish
regions and the economic weakness, Turkey now heads toward elections in
November, maybe the most important test for the Justice and Development Party
(AKP) and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan since his party came to power in 2002.

Erdogan has clearly set his heart on regaining the parliamentary majority he
lost in a surprise result in elections in July, which is part of his drive to
transfer more executive power from the government to the presidency. However,
that is impossible unless he controls parliament and he has pulled out all the
stops to regain his majority in the snap elections to be held in November.
Playing nationalist cards and liberally applying the anti-terrorist laws for
political purposes against his opponents, the president has been pouring more
oil on the flames.

And it is not working. Most polls suggest that under fair elections the AKP
would not be able to secure enough votes to form a single party government. Only
one survey commissioned by the AKP itself showed that support for Erdogan's
party had risen to 44.2% from 40% in June to regain the parliamentary majority
it lost in June.

Structural problems

The ruling party AKP owes much of its past electoral victories to unprecedented
economic growth, which averaged an impressive 5.5% between 2002 and 2011. The
economy grew 9.4% in 2004, 8.4% in the following year, 9.2% in 2010 and 8.8% in
2011. But it now seems that Erdogan is paying the political cost of not
delivering on the promise of more prosperity. In 2012 the economy grew by a mere
2.1%, picking up to 4.2% in 2013, but then it expanded by only 2.9% last year.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) forecasts GDP growth of 3.1% for 2015, but
the central bank's latest expectations survey puts the figure at just 2.9%.

A combination of domestic and international factors had contributed to the
Turkish boom; the country had a stable, market-friendly and EU-oriented
government. The international economic environment was also very favourable,
supporting growth in emerging markets.

But the tide turned after the 2008 global financial crisis, while the political
landscape changed in Turkey after June 2013 when the Gezi Park anti-government
protests rocked the nation. This has been a toxic combination for Turkey,
scaring away foreign investors that had once put so much trust in this rising
economy.

Erdogan's increasingly authoritarian tendencies, his tight grip over state
institutions and media, politicisation of the judiciary, the corruption
allegations in 2013 that targeted Erdogan's inner circle, and the lack of
reforms which should address the country's chronic saving and current account
deficit problems have all eroded investor confidence in Turkey, which has become
a socially/politically deeply polarised nation over the past couple of years as
a result.

For example, as an indicator of investors' confidence in the economy, net
portfolio inflows declined from $41bn in 2012 to $24bn in 2013, and further down
to $20bn in 2014. It is this "hot money" that meets Turkey's need for some
$200mn a year to close the declining but still large current account deficit,
which is hovering above 5% of GDP.

The falling amount of foreign investment is partly due ot the global economic
woes that are affecting everyone, but the country's failure to attract long-term
investment is a failure that can be laid at Erdogan's door for failing to put in
place the policies and reforms that underpin this kind of investment.

Moreover, as a major importer of energy Turkey should be one of the few
countries in the region that benefits from the collapse of oil prices, but the
reform failure means the reverse is true.

The current account deficit widened 32% on year in July to $3.15bn (market
consensus: $3.5bn) as exports fell by 16%. The 12-month rolling deficit
increased to $45bn in July from $44.3bn in the previous month. Energy-dependent
Turkey definitely benefits from low oil prices, but the weak export performance
and weak currency has off set any gains made from paying less for fuel. Energy
Minister Taner Yildiz admitted in late August that the depreciation of the lira
cost Turkey a $4bn increase in the energy import bill since the beginning of
this year.

In its medium-term programme, the government had predicted that the current
account deficit would be 5.4% of GDP or $46bn, based on the assumption that
average exchange rate would be TRY2.29 to the dollar this year. But the actual
average rate was already TRY2.6523 as of September 21, with the lira trading
above TRY3.0 to the dollar since early September. Moreover, a recent central
bank survey showed that local economists see the rate at TRY3.0414 at the end of
2015.

There are no indications of a structural improvement in the current account
deficit or in the availability of non-debt creating financing sources, said
Fitch on September 18 when it affirmed Turkey's investment grade at 'BBB-' with
stable outlook.

Foreign investors spooked by the political uncertainty, surge in violence with
Kurdish militants and a possible Fed hike are dumping Turkish equities and
Turkish debt. The central bank reported an outflow of $474mn from Turkish
equities and another $1.1bn outflow from government debt securities in July. The
debt securities outflow amounted to $4.88bn in the first eight months of the
year versus an inflow of $1.2bn a year ago, while outflows from the equities
market was $368mn in the same period against an inflow of $2.1bn in January-July
2014. The result is a badly battered currency.

The Turkish lira is one of the worst performing among all emerging market
currencies this year and the central bank's failure to respond effectively to
the lira's sharp depreciation has added to investors' unease.

A weaker currency is supposed to lift the country's exports and thus support
local economic activity. But this is not happening because of weak demand from
Turkey's trading partners. Net exports' contribution to GDP growth in the second
quarter was -1.1 percentage points.

The weaker currency has also kept inflation stubbornly high. Despite falling oil
prices, the annual inflation rate remains at 7.0%, eroding wages. The other
culprit is food prices that rose by 1.3% on month in August, bringing the annual
food inflation to 9.71%. The polling agency Gezi found out in August that 68.4%
of the surveyed experience economic hardship.

"Core inflation, currently at 7.7%, is also likely to trend higher for the
remainder of the year, carrying the impact of the exchange rate pass-through,"
said Deniz Invest, a local brokerage, in an emailed note in September.

Weaker growth expected in second half

Turkey's GDP grew by 3.8% y/y in the second quarter (market consensus: 3.45%),
up from 2.5% on year in the first quarter, driven by consumption. The economy
expanded 3.1% on year in the first half versus 6.3% in the year-earlier period.
Households' final consumption that accounted for more than 65% of GDP rose by
5.6% on year in the second quarter, up from 4.6% in the first, and private
investments increased 2.1% in the first quarter rose by 11.4% in the second.
Domestic demand was strong in the quarter, probably because consumers brought
forward their purchases, for example car purchases, with the anticipation of the
depreciation of currency and higher interest rates in the post-Fed rate hike
environment.

In the second quarter, both consumer sentiment and business confident were
relatively strong because the political uncertainty that emerged after the June
elections was not in sight yet then. Leading indicators for July and August,
however, suggest that industrial production might moderate in the second half of
the year, while the overall economic activity is expected to slow in the coming
months because of the political uncertainty that has pulled down consumer and
business confidence. Moreover, exports are likely to remain weak in the
remainder of the year, creating further downside risks to growth.

Full-blown economic crisis not expected

This year's growth rate will be moderate at around 3%, not enough to reduce
unemployment, inflation will remain high and above the official target of 5%,
and the financial markets will stay volatile until and after the expected Fed
hike. Debt rollover ratio has been over 100%, but the post-Fed hike world will
be different for households, companies and banks. However, despite this
unfavourable outlook, a full-blown economic crisis is not expected this year.

It's no surprise that there is a correlation between economic growth and AKP's
electoral success. Yet it's intriguing that even if the economy contracted in
2009 or expanded by a relatively mild 3.1% in the first half of 2015, the AKP's
share of the vote never fell below 38% and the gap with its closest rival
Peoples' Republican Party (CHP) remained wide. The CHP has received less than
30% of the votes since 2002.

The question is whether the economy really matters to voters, especially to AKP
supporters. It could be argued that people in Turkey have been living with high
unemployment and high inflation for years and have got used to that. But this
only partially explains AKP supporters' commitment to the party. Even the
corruption allegations and Erdogan's authoritarian attitude do not seem to have
much effect on core AKP supporters who are mostly poor, conservative and
nationalist. The charismatic Erdogan always finds ways to appeal to AKP's core
supporters and keep them together even if his tactics deeply polarise the
country. He has dismissed the corruption investigations as a coup attempt to
topple him and an international plot against Turkey, he blames the secularist
elites (CHP, Western-minded bourgeoisie and Istanbul-based big business) for the
problems the country's poor have suffered since the foundation of the Republic
and apparently AKP supporters are ready to buy these arguments.

The June elections, however, showed that some AKP supporters could switch sides
if something very dramatic happens. The Kurdish voters who had previously
supported for the AKP turned to the Kurdish party HDP as Erdogan sharpened his
nationalist rhetoric before the June polls. Turkey's disenchanted liberals long
ago distanced themselves from the AKP and the country's leftists never supported
Erdogan's Islamist party.

What could possibly then further alienate AKP supporters - an economic crisis,
perhaps? What fuelled Turkey's economic growth under the AKP was the consumer
credit boom. Consumer loans rose more than 2,000% from 2004 to 2014, reaching
TRY284bn ((EURO)85bn). Data from the Banks Association of Turkey show that 53%
of consumer credit users are people with less than monthly income of TRY2,000
((EURO)600); that's an AKP supporter's profile. Low-income people have been able
to buy houses (built by the public housing administration TOKI), cars,
furniture, LCD TVs with consumer loans; they feel prosperous and give the AKP
credit for this. Banks' non-performling loan/total loan ratio is around 3%,
meaning people are still able to repay their credit debts. But a full-blown
economic crisis could yet change AKP supporters' minds if they start to fail to
repay their debts and more people lose their jobs. Given the Kurdish voters;
reaction in the June elections, the question is whether AKP supporters'
commitment to and adoration of Erdogan is limitless. A political party with a
convincing economic and political programme, led by a charismatic leader, could
steal votes from the AKP, but this looks like a remote possibility, at least in
the short term.

It is difficult to predict how Erdogan would react if the upcoming elections
produced yet another hung parliament. The current political deadlock must be
broken before the Fed hikes rates and consumer and business confidence must be
restored to bring about stronger growth or at least to prevent economic turmoil.

 A stable government with a clear reform agenda is needed to restore confidence
in Turkey and unleash the growth potential of the world's 17th largest economy.

Reforms must aim at increasing domestic savings through better private pension
schemes in order to reduce the country's current account deficit and restructure
the economy in a way that GDP growth no longer causes large external imbalances.
Domestic production must reduce its dependence on imported intermediate and
capital goods, and exporters must produce higher value-added products.

A stable political environment and a government that respects the rule of law
will improve business climate, attract more foreign direct investments and
unleash the $800bn economy's potentials. "Although the state, corporates, banks
and households have some buffers, it may not be easy to cope with adverse
effects if Fed lift-off couples with ongoing political uncertainty after
November 1 elections, a rating cut from Fitch or Moody's or complacent central
bank," said Morgan Stanley in a report on September 17.


GDP Growth Projections for Turkey
(%)                                                                 201 2016
                                                                      5
EBRD (May 2015)                                                     3.0  3.0
European Commission (May 2015)                                      3.2  3.7
Turkish Government - Medium Term Programme for 2015-2017 (Oct 2014) 4.0  5.0
IMF (April 2015)                                                    3.1  3.6
Turkish Central Bank survey (September 2015)                        2.9  3.2
World Bank (Apr 2015)                                               3.0  3.5
OECD (June 2015)                                                    3.1  3.9
Reuters Poll (September 2015)                                       2.9    -
Fitch (September 2015)                                              2.8  3.0
Source: ebrd, ec, dpt, imf, tcmb, oecd, world bank, s&p, kap


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             869 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            October 11, 2015 Sunday

Protesters rally against Turkish government as death toll said to rise to 128

LENGTH: 1520  words


The death toll from the October 10 twins blasts at a peace rally has now reached
more than 100, say opposition politicians, as thousands of demonstrators in
Turkish cities and around the world took to the streets to vent their fury at
the Turkish government and its failure to stem the violence that's wracking the
country.

Some 10,000 demonstrators in Istanbul chanted anti-government slogans denouncing
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, saying: "We will not give up without destroying
the head of the palace", "The state is the killer", and "We know the murderers".
Demonstrators also gathered in Ankara, where they clashed with police forces
after officers reportedly blocked a road in order to allow ambulances to pass;
in Izmir on the shores of the Aegean Sea; and in smaller towns including Batman
and Diyarbakir in Anatolia, where police reportedly used tear gas to disperse
the rally.

The Turkish diaspora also rallied in some of the largest cities in Europe
including Paris, where an estimated 1,000 mostly Kurdish protesters heeded calls
from the Kurdish Democratic Council in France and gathered in Place de la
Republique to manifest their disgust with the "cowardly attack". Another 400
protesters gathered in Strasbourg, according to AFP, and several hundred in the
southern port of Marseille. In Zurich, police reported that 1,000 peaceful
protesters took to the streets, some holding up signs that read "Stop state
terror in Turkey".

As Turkey began to burry the victims of the twin bomb attacks in Ankara, the
government released the names of 98 victims, which include two deputies from the
Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and 10 from the opposition Republican
People's Party (CHP). According to the HDP, the number of people killed in the
bombing stands at 128, all but eight of whom have been identified and their
names published by the HDP's crisis desk.

Twitter account @dilkocer is going through the list and publishing separate
tweets for each victim, including their photograph and some background
information. An already inflamed social media has reacted strongly to news that
nine-year-old Veysel Deniz Atilgan lost his life in the attacks, with ironic
comments condemning the heroes that would murder a child.

Whodunnit?

No group has claimed responsibility for the attacks yet, but the mostly
anti-establishment protesters seemed to agree with Turkish MP Lutfu Turkkan, who
tweeted after the bombing that the  attack "was either a failure by the
intelligence service, or it was done by the intelligence service".

According to a Turkish news agency report police had detained 14 suspected IS
members in the central Turkish city of Konya, but it was not clear if the
detentions were related to the twin blasts in Ankara.

The attacks occurred outside the Ankara train station where an estimated 14,000
protesters were attending a peaceful rally organised by several NGOs - the
Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions (KESK), the Confederation of
Revolutionary Trade Unions of Turkey (DISK), the Turkish Medical Association
(TTB) and the Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects (TMMOB). The
first bomb exploded amidst protesters of the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic
Party (HDP), who had not begun the march yet, and were holding hands chanting
anti-government slogans. The second blast was seconds after and hit
demonstrators of the pro-Partizan Kaldirac Party, who happened to be amidst the
larger group of HDP protesters.

Shortly after the attacks, the HDP, the main target group, issued a statement
addressed to the international community in which it complained that, "there
were no police around the crime scene when the explosion occurred. The riot
(police) arrived at the place after 15 minutes. But when they arrived, they
attacked people who wanted to help the injured with tear gas bombs". If their
claims are correct, it would make the Ankara protests an exception to the rule
in Turkey, where protests are conducted under heavy police control. The HDP
statement also spoke about a previous attack on them, at 6:00am on October 10,
which was an attempt to damage their headquarters in Ankara, and which the HDP
claims is connected to the bomb blasts four hours later.

Ankara's official position is that the blasts were carried out by two suicide
bombers, according to Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. The state-run Anadolu News
Agency quoted two security officials, who asked not to be named, who claimed
that the bombs were "made of TNT explosives with metal balls added to make
projectiles" - a method reminiscent of the deadly bomb blast in Suruc on July
20, for which IS claimed responsibility. IS' Turkey Twitter account
congratulated the attack, but didn't claim responsiblity.

At the same time, Davutoglu was quoted late last week claiming that Turkey had
arrested many suicide bombers who were trying to cross the border from Iraq. If
the accounts are corroborated, the most likely affiliation of the presumed
suicide bombers would be the Kurdish militant group PKK, because IS has no
control over Turkey's border with Iraq. Twitter was full on October 10 with
responses of "disgust" at media reports that the PKK could be behind the attacks
against pro-Kurdish protesters, and complaints that this was a staged attack to
coincide with the PKK's calls for a unilateral ceasefire.

Dr Can Erimtan, an independent scholar, historian, journalist and writer
residing in Istanbul, says it's "obvious" that there is a connection between the
October 10 twin attacks in Ankara and what happened in Suruc on July 20. "It is
the same methodology... Voices have emerged in Turkey accusing the government of
colluding with the IS for these attacks and of employing IS to counteract the
growth of the Kurdish movement in Turkey. What happened yesterday bares the
hallmarks of that, and it would stand to reason that there could be some
government complicity in there."

Emritan believes the only party that will benefit from this is the AKP. "The
first reaction of people might be that the HDP will now get more sympathy votes,
which may be true, but the Kurds are a limited group - 10% of the population,
and the sympathy vote will be minor. On the other hand, the AKP's electorate is
concerned with terrorist attacks and will turn to the government for protection
and safeguarding. So I think that the only one who will benefit from this attack
is the ruling party," he says.

A strange aside is that on October 10 journalist Mehmet Faraç of Halk TV
revealed that a Twitter user using the handle @AnatoliTodorov and going by the
name of Pir Ozan Abdal had tweeted a series of statements between 12am and 1am
on October 10 in which he described a big terrorist attack that would take place
at the Ankara. The Twitter account has since been closed, but left-leaning
social media picked up on them and they are circulating on Turkish websites.

Translations of the tweets are as follows:

*A legal rally is organized by KESK, DISK (unions). But things can change
dramatically given the current political atmosphere in the country

*(Pro-Kurdish) HDP supporters will be there. Their presence may anger Turkish
nationalists and the state.

*There will be a huge crowd at Ankara rally, a possible police intervention
could result in a catastrophe like the one back in 1977's May Day rally.

*The scariest scenario: an attack like the one in Suruc. A possible bomb attack
could result in one of the deadliest massacres.

T-21 until snap elections

The timing of the bomb blasts is highly sensitive, as Turkey will be holding
snap elections on November 1, after a similar round of elections in June failed
to deliver a coalition government. Violence has escalated in the months since
the first elections, after the ceasefire between the PKK and Ankara was ended
and the ethnic conflict that has divided Turkey for decades was reignited.

Whoever was behind Saturday's attacks, their intention is clear: to disseminate
panic and wreak havoc, and to further accentuate the schisms in Turkish society
and politics. That the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) would seek
to exacerbate the polarisation in Turkish society is in line with what the
Erdogan administration has pursued since 2010, according to Dr Zenonas Tziarras,
an analyst on security and Turkey at the Europe Levant Observatory of the
University of Nicosia.

"What Erdogan is doing, and the violence that he has brought upon his country
may play a very negative role on the results of the November (parliamentary)
elections for his party," he told bne Intellinews. A victimised HDP could secure
enough popular sympathy to garner at least 13% of the votes, as it did back in
the June elections, he added.

Other observers claim that the contrary is true; that creating an environment of
insecurity would dissuade voters, particularly those residing in large cities
like Ankara, Izmir, and Istanbul - a large percentage of whom are
anti-establishment - from heading to the voting stations in November. That would
grant the governing AKP a distinct advantage at the polls, as Turkey's rural
electorate is likely to vote for the ruling party.



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             870 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday

Will Turkey's November election be free and fair?

LENGTH: 1300  words


Kivanc Dundar in Istanbul

October 29, 2015

Turkey will go to the polls on November 1 for what is seen as the country's most
important election in decades, which will decide and shape the future of the
78mn nation.

The country has been beset by political deadlock, terror attacks, a government
crackdown on opposition media, deepening social polarisation, a slowing economy
and renewed clashes with Kurdish insurgents since June, when President Recep
Tayyip Erdogan's Justice and Development Party (AKP) lost its majority in
parliament for the first time since taking power in 2002.

Erdogan knows his AKP needs a clear victory this time. If the AKP is somehow
forced to share power in the event of yet another hung parliament, the
opposition will move to curb his powers or more perilously could reopen the
corruption investigations from 2013 that targeted Erdogan's inner circle.

As pressure on the opposition media has mounted, people are now questioning the
government's motives and asking whether the November election can really be
deemed free and fair?

Some even speculate that the government might try to rig the election result.
This would be a bold move, but is it actually possible?

In defence of the ballot boxes

Even before the June parliamentary election, some critics of the government had
been sounding alarming bells, arguing that Erdogan and the AKP would do whatever
it takes - including vote-rigging - to ensure victory, because the stakes were
too high for them to risk failure.

A survey carried out by Koc University ahead of the June election found that
less than half of Turks (48%) believed it would be fair, down from 70% in 2007
and 57% in 2011. And they have many reasons to be distrustful.

During the municipality elections in 2014, on the very night when officials
started to count the votes, more than 30 cities, reportedly, experienced power
outages for hours. The reason for the massive power cut: a tiny cat. "I'm not
joking my friends, a cat walked into a transformer unit that caused the power
outages," the energy minister told reporters.

People did not laugh, but decided to organise.

Alarmed by talk of vote-rigging and concerned about autocratic cats interfering
with the election process, a group of citizens launched a platform called Oy ve
Otesi (Vote and Beyond) to prevent possible election fraud. Some 55,000
volunteers, organised and trained by Oy ve Otesi, signed up to guard the ballot
boxes in the June election.

Apparently these efforts paid off; there were no widely reported cases of
election fraud. And in the end, the AKP's share of the vote did not increase but
actually declined. However, this meant the country plunged into the current
political deadlock which, according to opinion polls, will not be broken in this
November election.

Perhaps, though, the clean election happened simply because the idea of
vote-rigging had never crossed AKP leaders' minds; they just sat back and waited
in agony for the results to come in.

But once again rumours about vote-rigging have started to circulate on social
media ahead of the November 1 election. Oy ve Otesi now recruits 1,000 new
volunteers every day, up from 200 in the run-up to the June election.

A whistle-blower, who tweets under the alias Fuat Avni and has a credible track
record in predicting government operations well before they actually happen,
recently suggested that the AKP might have some plans for this election.

The whistle-blower claimed that software has been developed that will be
integrated into the state's digital vote-counting system to help manipulate the
results in favour of the ruling party. In a coordinated effort, the state news
agency Anadolu will report manipulated results from ballot stations across the
country to make the official results look reliable.

However, the problem with this claim is that the private news agency Cihan will
also be reporting the results as soon as the votes start to be counted. So any
discrepancies, if too large, between Cihan's counts and those of Anadolu will be
very visible and suspicious.

The Kurdish party HDP and the main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP)
also have their own network of election observers, working in the field to keep
an eye on the ballot boxes.

But even here rumours have started swirling: Cihan is owned by a company linked
to US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, a previous ally of Erdogan now turned arch
enemy. Some say the authorities could go after it and silence Cihan just before
the election.

Press freedom under threat

On October 28, the police stormed the headquarters of the TV channels Bugun and
Kanalturk, owned by the Koza-Ipek Group associated with Gulen.

Prosecutors appointed a panel of trustees to manage the Koza companies on
October 27, following an investigation into Koza-Ipek over its alleged links to
the so-called "Fetullahist Terrorist Organisation". Koza-Ipek is accused of
providing financial support to the Gulenist network.

Dozens of people gathered in front of the broadcasters Bugun and Kanalturk on
October 28 in solidarity with the media group. Brawls broke out when the
government-appointed trustees tried to enter the media companies' offices. The
riot police dispersed the crowd with water cannon and tear gas. After the police
and trustees had forced their way into the offices, they pulled the plug on the
broadcasts by Bugun and Kanalturk and screens went blank.

Erdogan accuses Gulen and his followers of infiltrating the country's police
force, media and judiciary, establishing what he calls "a parallel state" to
overthrow him and the AKP government. Gulen denies the charge.

The offices of the liberal newspaper Hurriyet, owned by Dogan Group, were also
attacked by AKP supporters twice in September. One of the newspaper's well-known
columnists was assaulted; he had his nose and ribs broken.

Dogan was handed a tax fine of TRY4.9bn ((EURO)1.5bn) in 2009. The conglomerate
later sold two of its newspapers, Milliyet and Vatan, in 2011.

Turkey has never been a particularly easy place for journalists, but the current
level of oppression on the country's media is unprecedented - nothing like this
was seen even during the times of military rule, say some veteran journalists.

Turkey is one of the world's top jailers of journalists, according to the
Committee to Project Journalists. Turkey is ranked 149th out of 180 countries in
the 2015 World Freedom Index, down from its 98th place (out of 161 countries) in
2006.

Level playing field

Maybe the government won't rig the election, but it is difficult to say whether
the parties are competing on a level playing field.

Some major TV channels and newspapers are owned by business groups close to
Erdogan and they do not let opposition parties reach out to AKP supporters who
mostly watch and read pro-government media outlets.

Erdogan and the AKP leaders, on the other hand, dominate the airwaves. Since the
election campaign began, Erdogan has enjoyed 29 hours of airtime on the
state-run broadcaster TRT over 25 days, while the CHP got five hours,
nationalist MHP 70 minutes and the HDP just 18 minutes.

So what will happen if, as is likely, the election results in another hung
parliament?

Erdogan could agree to remain above party politics and let the AKP form a
coalition government with one of the opposition parties, but given his ambitions
to turn the country into a executive presidential system this is not likely, at
least at the moment.

More worryingly, the president could call another election if he sees the AKP's
votes has not risen enough to form a government alone, hoping that another round
of elections would finally bring the desired victory after people get fed up
with all the uncertainty and vote for his party out of desperation.

But the president should know that this cycle of elections cannot go on
endlessly.


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             871 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday

Turkish deputy prime minister says presidency system demand irrevocable for
ruling AKP

LENGTH: 439  words


Turkey's ruling AKP sees presidency system crucial for Turkey and it is one of
the irrevocable issues for AKP, Deputy Prime Minister Yalcin Akdogan said in a
TV interview on November 3, adding that the government has not lost its European
Union accession perspective and it is committed to the reform process. The
government expects acceleration in accession talks and new chapter openings in
the coming months, according to Akdogan. Akdogan also informed that the
government will continue operations against PKK.

Signs for the possible changes in ruling AKP government's post-election policies
are closely followed by the market participants and economic players. AKP, which
won 317 seats in 550-seat parliament in November 1 snap elections, still falls
short of 330 seats required to put a constitutional change into referendum
although it recovered its single-party rule. Any of all three opposition parties
does not seem to provide support for AKP's presidency system demand, however,
AKP's insistency in presidency system carries to deadlock new constitution
process again. Presidency system was one of the main conflicts between AKP and
opposition parties in the previous new constitution talks held after June 2011
elections. Domestic political tension was high in the pre-election period around
the conflict between Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Gulen Movement,
Kurdish problem and Syria.

News agencies reported that one member of PKK's youth arm YPG was killed by
security forces on November 3 in clashes under curfews declared in three
districts of Diyarbakir. Turkish Armed Forces also announced on November 2 that
air operations against PKK targets in Turkish city of Hakkari and in the
Northern Iraq continued on November 2.

Turkish police detained on November 3 at least 44 people, including former Izmir
police chief, former deputy chiefs and former deputy governors, in an
anti-terror operation launched against members of alleged Fetullahist Terrorist
Organization, as a sign that Turkish government will continue its battle with
Gulen movement.

A key indicator that will determine the outlook for social polarization inside
Turkey will be whether President Erdogan will renew his bid to establish a
"super-presidency", Ege Seckin, analyst at IHS Country Risk, commented on
November 2 in an e-mailed statement with the title of "Rising business risks in
Turkey following election", adding that a fresh bid for the constitutional
changes necessary for this move would be likely to give rise to civil unrest
across the country, with a scope and intensity similar to the Gezi Park protests
in the summer of 2013.


LOAD-DATE: November 04, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             872 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           December 2, 2015 Wednesday

Bomb explodes at Istanbul metro station, one injured

LENGTH: 301  words


A pipe bomb exploded during rush hour near a metro station in Istanbul's
Bayrampasa district on December 1. One person was injured slightly in the
explosion.

Local media reported that the blast that was heard from other districts occurred
at an overpass near the metro station. All train services in Istanbul were
suspended temporarily following the explosion. There was conflicting information
about the source of explosion. Some earlier reports suggested that a power
transformer may have caused the explosion, but later it emerged that it was a
pipe bomb.

The actual target of the roadside bomb was a bus carrying riot police, according
to the Hurriyet newspaper. Video footage from the scene showed the bus was
passing by just moments before the explosion. No group has claimed
responsibility yet for the Bayrampasa attack.

People in Istanbul, the country's  largest city, and across Turkey have been
anxious and remained on high alert following recent terror attack in Ankara at a
peace really in October, and a suicide bomb attack in the town of Suruc, both
blamed on the Islamic State. More than 150 people were killed in the Ankara and
Suruc attacks. Tensions with Moscow over the downing a Russian plane near the
Syrian border also cause concerns.

Another source of anxiety is the renewed violence between security forces and
the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) amid the collapse of a two-year ceasefire in
July. Clashes that have already left hundreds of security personnel and PKK
militants dead are mostly taking place in the country's south eastern provinces,
but it is feared that the PKK may carry out revenge attacks in other parts of
the country and violence may spread to Turkey's other cities.

The leftist group DHKP-C and PKK have in the past carried out attacks on
security forces in Istanbul.


LOAD-DATE: December 02, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             873 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           December 15, 2015 Tuesday

Three police officer killed in bomb attack in southeast Turkey

LENGTH: 180  words


A road side bomb killed three police officers in the Silvan district of
Diyarbakir in southeast Turkey on December 15.

The Hurriyet newspaper says the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) militants denoted
the bomb by remote control while the armoured police vehicle was travelling on a
motorway between Silvan and Diyarbakir, the largest city in the mainly Kurdish
south east. Diyarbakir earlier this week witnessed violent clashes between
protesters and riot police. Two protesters were reportedly shot dead on December
14 when thousands of people gathered to denounce a curfew in Diyarbakir's Sur
district.

Violence between security forces and the PKK has escalated after the fragile
peace process totally collapsed in July. Hundreds of security officers and PKK
militants have been killed since then. The government does not yet seem to be
willing to relaunch the peace talks with the insurgents. The fight against the
PKK will continue until they lay down and bury their arms, and until the last
terrorist leaves the country or surrender, said President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
in October.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             874 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday

Kurdish party HDP plans mass rallies as clashes continue in Turkey's southeast

LENGTH: 282  words


The main Kurdish party HDP plans to hold mass rallies this month in support of
the party leaders' call for self-governance in the predominantly Kurdish
southeast.

The police disperse almost all demonstrations in the Kurdish provinces with tear
gas and water cannon. Mass rallies planned by the HDP will mean more clashes and
civil unrest in the country's restive southeast.

Violence between the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and security forces flared
in July when a two-year ceasefire collapsed in July. Since then, hundreds of
security personnel, PKK militants and civilians have been killed in the clashes.
On January 4, two soldiers, two civilians and a police officer were killed in
the cities of Diyarbakir and Silopi, Reuters reported.

The HDP also plans to hold workshops and town-hall meetings on autonomy" and
self-rule, particularly focusing on Turkey's western provinces, HDP spokesperson
Ayhan Bilgen said.

Prosecutors last week launched investigations into HDP Co-chairs Selahattin
Demirtas and Figen Yuksekdag over their remarks in support of self-governance.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan supported the criminal investigation. The
statements by the HDP co-chairs are unconstitutional and they must pay the
price, Erdogan said. Calls for self-governance are clear provocation, according
to Erdogan. As member of parliaments, Demirtas and Yuksekdag enjoy parliamentary
immunity.

Deputy PM and government spokesman Numan Kurtulmus signalled on January 4 that
the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) would not move to lift the HDP
leaders' immunity. The AKP is against party closures and lifting deputies'
immunities, said Kurtulmus, who called on the HDP to act more responsibly.


LOAD-DATE: January 05, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             876 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                            Sub-Sahara Africa Today

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

SA AngloGold says investors interested in buying Ghana's Obuasi mine

LENGTH: 386  words


South Africa-based AngloGold Ashanti, the world's third biggest bullion
producer, announced that potential investors expressed interest in acquiring or
partnering in its idled Obuasi mine in Ghana.

"There is quite a lot of interest, even now, in terms of the Obuasi assets, even
in the form of a joint venture," AngloGold Chief Executive Srinivasan
Venkatakrishnan, stated.

Obuasi is a large, high-grade deposit with proven and probable ore reserves of
24.53Mt at 6.70g/t for 5.29Moz, part of a substantial mineral resource base.

Earlier in February, AngloGold said that it would not seek a new joint venture
partner for the mine in Ghana until it had an investment agreement with the
government.

Obuasi has been hit by unrest as AngloGold's head of corporate affairs was
killed there in in a car accident as he and other employees were running from a
riot involving illegal miners.

In December last year, Randgold Resources, a gold mining and exploration company
operating in West and Central Africa, abandoned a plan to team up with AngloGold

 Ashanti to redevelop its Obuasi Mine in Ghana. The two miners had signed a
conditional investment agreement for a joint venture to revamp Obuasi, which was
mothballed in December 2014.

AngloGold has 6 operating mines in South Africa and 14 operations in 9 other
countries - Ghana, Guinea, Tanzania, Mali, the Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC), Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and the US. In June 2015, AngloGold agreed
to sell its US Cripple Creek & Victor mine to Newmont Mining Corporation for
$820mn in cash, plus a net smelter return royalty, as part of its strategy to
cut debt.

On Monday, Feb 22, AngloGold said it turned to profit in 2015, benefiting from
falling oil prices and weaker currencies in the countries from which it exports
gold. Adjusted headline earnings, which exclude certain one-off items, reached
$49mn against a loss the previous year of $1mn.

"The results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 show the combination of a
strong ongoing focus on cost and capital discipline, as well as the operational
leverage the company has to weaker currencies and lower oil prices," AngloGold
said.

AngloGold produced 3.947mn ounces in total last year, marking an 11% decline
from 2014 due to the safety-related disruptions in South Africa and the idling
of Obuasi.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             877 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                             March 1, 2016 Tuesday

Production halted at Renault's Turkey plant over labour dispute

LENGTH: 161  words


Production has been halted since February 29 at carmaker Renault's plant in the
city of Bursa over a labour dispute.

Workers have been protesting the company's decision to fire 15 workers. Workers
at the plant, owned by Oyak-Renault -a joint venture between the French carmaker
and the Turkish army pension fund, demand that their colleagues return to their
jobs, Today's Zaman reported.

Protesting workers clashed with riot police, according to local media. The
police reportedly detained some 15 protesters.

The plant in Bursa employs 5,000 workers.

Last year in May, workers at Oyak Renault launched protests over wages and
working conditions and the carmaker had to suspend production. Renault could
reconsider investment in Turkey if the unrest would deepen, French carmaker's
head of Eurasia, Jean Christophe Kugler, had warned at that time.

Oyak-Renault produced more than 330,000 passenger cars last year, accounting for
43% of the total car production in Turkey.


LOAD-DATE: March 03, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             878 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                             March 3, 2016 Thursday

Turkish police clash with anti-curfew protesters in Diyarbakir

LENGTH: 245  words


Clashes erupted on March 2 in Diyarbakir, the largest city in Turkey's
predominantly Kurdish southeast, as hundreds of protesters took to the streets
to protest against a month-long curfew in Diyarbakir's Sur district.

The police used tear gas and water cannons to stop protesters marching towards
Sur and arrested more than 30 people. Sur has been under a curfew since early
December as the security forces carry out operations against members of the
Kurdistan Workers' party (PKK).

The march in Diyarbakir was called by the pro-Kurdish People's Democratic Party
(HDP).

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called on prosecutors to take action against
HDP's co-chair Selahattin Demirtas over the march in Sur. Prosecutors have to
fulfil their duties because nobody has the right to create chaos and disturb the
peace in my country, Today's Zaman quoted Erdogan as saying on March 2. Erdogan
previously called for the removal of the immunity of HDP lawmakers.

Echoing Erdogan, PM Ahmet Davutoglu said lawmakers from the HDP were seeking to
drag the country into chaos, accusing the HDP of collaborating with terrorists.

The government this week partially lifted a curfew in the town of Cizre, which
is another flashpoint of clashed between security forces and PKK militants.

A two-year ceasefire between the state and the PKK collapsed in July. Since then
hundreds of civilians, security personnel and PKK militants have been killed in
clashes in the country's south-eastern provinces.


LOAD-DATE: March 04, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             879 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              March 4, 2016 Friday

Turkish justice ministry submits request to lift immunity of several HDP
deputies

LENGTH: 296  words


The Ministry of Justice on March 4 submitted a request to the Prime Minister's
office to lift the immunity of five deputies from the pro-Kurdish party HDP,
including its co-chairs Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yuksekdag, in a probe into
the remarks they made in December in support of the Kurdish self-rule in
Turkey's southeast.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has repeatedly called on parliament to lift the
immunity of deputies from the HDP which he sees as the extension of the
Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).

After clashes erupted in Diyarbakir on March 2 when hundreds of people took to
the streets to protest against a month-long curfew in the city's Sur district,
PM Ahmet Davutoglu accused HDP lawmakers of seeking to drag Turkey into chaos
and collaborating with terrorists.

The HDP is the third largest party in parliament.

The opposition Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) asked parliament on March 3 to
discuss requests to lift the immunity of lawmakers as part of the fight against
terrorism.

A two-year ceasefire between the state and the PKK collapsed in July which has
plunged the country into one of its worst periods of violence since the 1990s.

On March 4, two police officers were killed and 35 people wounded in a car bomb
attack, blamed on the PKK, in the south-eastern town of Nusaybin. In a separate
incident in the city of Sirnak, two soldiers were killed in a clash with PKK
militants.

A simple majority (276 votes) is needed to remove deputies' immunity at the
550-seat parliament.

As of March 1, 469 files of summary of proceedings concerning deputies has been
submitted to parliament, with the majority of these files, 278, pertaining to
the HDP, Daily Sabah reported on March 3.

Parliament has not so far moved to remove the immunity of any of those
lawmakers.


LOAD-DATE: March 07, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             880 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              March 7, 2016 Monday

EU, US criticise seizure of Turkish opposition newspaper Zaman

LENGTH: 300  words


The Turkish authorities' move to seize control of the opposition newspaper
Zaman, received strong criticism by Ankara's allies US and the EU while the
government in Ankara dismissed any responsibility.

John Kirby, a spokesperson for the State Department, said the court order was
the latest in a series of troubling judicial and law enforcement actions taken
by the Turkish government targeting media outlets and others critical of it.

Johannes Hahn, the EU enlargement commissioner, said he was extremely worried by
the move which jeopardises progress made by Turkey in other areas. We will
continue to monitor this case closely, he said, adding that Turkey, as a
candidate country, needs to respect freedom of the media.

Police fired teargas and water cannons on March 4 and March 5 to disperse a few
thousand supporters who gathered outside the newspaper offices in Istanbul.

The website of Zaman, the country's largest-circulation newspaper, has not been
functioning. A message on the newspaper's website reads: "We will provide our
readers with better quality and more objective service as soon as possible". The
newspaper's Twitter account has been taken down.

The newspaper has printed pro-government stories in its first edition after the
authorities took control.

Meanwhile, PM Ahmet Davutoglu dismissed claims that the seizure of Zaman is part
of the government's efforts to crackdown on its critics. The takeover was a
legal not a politically motivated decision, according to Davutoglu. "Neither me
or any of my colleagues interfered in this process", he said.

But Martin Schulz, the European Parliament President, pledged to discuss the
matter with Davutoglu at the EU-Turkey summit on March 7.

Turkey ranks 149th among the 180 countries in the Reporters Without Borders'
World Press Freedom Index.


LOAD-DATE: March 07, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             881 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                             April 19, 2016 Tuesday

BEYOND THE BOSPHORUS: Turkey's rekindling of ties with Israel is not sign
Erdogan is softening

LENGTH: 1059  words


In the halcyon days of the early 2000s, when Turkey's new government was not
almost universally reviled, the American Jewish Congress gave then prime
minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan its "Profile in Courage" award for his efforts to
bring peace to the Middle East and protect Turkey's Jewish citizens.

Two years ago, the lobby group asked for it back. The American Jewish Congress
President said that Erdogan was "arguably the most virulent anti-Israeli leader
in the world". In the interim decade, Turkey's normally cooperative relations
with Israel had deteriorated badly, most decidedly after a deadly Israeli naval
raid in 2010 on a Turkish ship, Mavi Marmara, which was trying to break through
Israel's blockade of Gaza - but also in a wave of populist anti-Israeli rhetoric
that Erdogan employed to endear him at home and in the Arab street.

That was before Turkey botched its trade ties with Russia. We will never quite
know how much thought was given to the decision in November to blast a Russian
jet out of Turkey's airspace, but the satisfaction of punishing Moscow for
ignoring warnings on Syria was short-lived. With its dependence on Russia for
gas, exports and sun-seeking tourists, Turkey has been paying in hard cash for
the decision to annoy Vladimir Putin, one of the most peevish leaders in the
world.

So, today, Israel is suddenly flavour of the month again. Efforts have actually
been ongoing for some years to revitalize ties between the two countries, but
it's no coincidence that less than a month after the Russian Su-24 was downed,
Turkish officials began to speak about intensified negotiations to buy natural
gas from Israel. When an Islamic State suicide bomber killed three Israeli
tourists in the centre of Istanbul in March, Israelis said the Turks were more
than helpful. Israel was allowed to land an army plane in Turkey to bring home
Israeli casualties, Erdogan expressed his condolences several times and his AK
Party, unusually, expelled an official who sent hostile tweets about the Israeli
wounded.

Turkish and Israeli officials met early in April to discuss an end to the
five-year diplomatic rift. Turkey - whose international standing is much lower
than when it first broke off relations - appears to be the more conciliatory of
the two sides. The two countries are now said to be close to a deal on building
a floating port off Gaza, and Israel's Leviathon Partners is in talks to build a
500km pipeline to export gas to Turkey, which would help reduce Ankara's
dependency on Moscow. While Russian tourism has halved, Israelis are returning
to Turkey and Turkish food exporters are also finding customers in Israel for
food products that should have been destined for Russia.

Turkey's state statistics institute shows that, military consignments aside,
Turkey's exports to Israel have remained steady during the diplomatic crisis,
while those to Russia were falling even before the jet debacle. Russian Foreign
Minister Sergey Lavrov reportedly told his Israeli counterpart that Moscow was
unhappy with renewed Turkish-Israeli closeness.

Turkey's new warming to Israel is in tandem with talks with Greece over the
possibility of resolving the decades-long division of Cyprus. Ankara is also
improving its relations with Saudi Arabia after they soured over the late Saudi
King's dislike of the Muslim Brotherhood, shedding - at least officially - its
distaste for Egypt's leadership and increasing dialogue with Iran, a country
firmly positioned on the other side of the Shi'ite-Sunni divide that has grown
in the region recently.

What's happening, then? Is Turkey suddenly deciding after all that the splendid
isolation until recently praised by its leaders is not such a great place to be?

Not alone

If you listened to Erdogan's opening speech to the Istanbul summit of the
Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (IOC), you would think so.

"We must unify not divide, we must promote alliances, not confrontation,
strengthen dialogue, not hostility," he said. He spoke out against the recent
rise in sectarianism - a sectarianism that some would argue he has in the past
helped stir. "My religion isn't Sunni or Shi'ite, my religion is Islam."

He also gave a nod to the rule of law: "It is inevitable that people who lose
their faith in justice will be open to the exploitation of terrorist
organisations."

But while Turkey could do with a dose of cuddly warmth on the international
stage, it would be a mistake to read Erdogan's positive rhetoric as a `New Year,
New You' moment. This is, after all, a man who has won prizes for his oratory
and has often laced his strings of fiery outbursts with speeches apparently full
of peace and love.

And you only have to take a random look at the media to see that the Erdogan
hostility and paranoia machine is still in full flow. He is taking yet another
comedian to court - this time German comic Jan Boermermann for insulting him.
Parliament - controlled by his AK Party - is about to approve the lifting of
MP's immunities, allegedly to make them accountable for common crimes but really
so that pro-Kurdish deputies, whose election deprived AK of a super-majority in
parliament back in June, can be thrown in jail. The fact that the spineless
opposition Republican People's Party and the hawkish Nationalist Action Party
are supporting the motion shows, incidentally, that AK is not the only barrier
in Turkey to human rights.

And there's little point in Turkey trying to mend fences abroad when the
domestic scene is so glum.

In its 2015 progress report for Turkey, the European Parliament issued a
blistering critique of the country's rights record, accusing it of backsliding
on democracy and the rule of law.

The brutal fighting in Turkey's Kurdish regions continues unabated and we are
now seeing the reemergence of the much criticized village guards. These are
local Kurds armed and backed by the state to effectively spy on and fight other
Kurds - it's a system that has proved ineffective in combating terror, but
effective in creating strife and division. Even when decommissioned, the guards
would run riot, using state arms to continue blood feuds, grab land from
neighbours and terrorise people they didn't like.

With initiatives such as this back in the game, Erdogan's words can be as
honeyed as he likes. Without any effort to make peace at home, they're worth
nothing.


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             882 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                              June 20, 2016 Monday

Erdogan revives controversial Gezi plans, three years after mass anti-government
protests

LENGTH: 401  words


Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has vowed to revive controversial plans
to redevelop Istanbul's Gezi Park that triggered mass anti-government protests
back in 2013. Several people were killed, hundreds of people injured during the
protests that posed the biggest challenge to the government of the
Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party (AKP) since coming to power in
2002.

The plans envisage rebuilding of the Ottoman-era military barracks and
construction of a mosque. "If we want to preserve our history we must rebuild
this historic structure, we will rebuild it," Erdogan said on June 18.

Erdogan revisits the controversial plan at a time when he is aware that
parliamentary and non-parliamentary opposition is weak and fragmented and a
repeat of the Gezi protests is unlikely. The mood among anti-government people
is hopelessness and deep sense of defeat since the November election, in which
the AKP regained the parliamentary majority it lost in June's snap polls.

Erdogan seems to be doing what is doing the best: he is consolidating his
supporter base by polarising the country. He is aware that his statements on
Gezi Park may agitate and provoke his opponents and may drive them back to the
streets. Probably Erdogan wants to test the power of his opponents as he pushes
for gaining absolute power. If his opponents take to the streets once again,
probably there will be fewer protesting people compared to 2013 and he will
easily crush them, sending the morale of his opponents to sub-zero level.

Showing the weakness of non-parliamentary opposition which constituted the
backbone of the 2013 protests, only several hundreds of people gathered on June
18 in Istanbul's Cihangir district to protest an attack on a record shop the
previous night where the fans of British rock band Radiohead were celebrating
the launch of the band's last album.

Around 20 people armed with sticks stormed the shop, owned by a Korean citizen,
on June 17, attacked the fans because they said there were reacting to the
consumption of alcohol at the event during the holy month of Ramadan. Police
used tear gas and water cannon, a regular practice by security forces since the
Gezi events in 2013, to disperse the crowd on June 18.

Commenting on the Cihangir incident, Erdogan said both the organisers of the
event and the attackers were wrong. The alleged attackers were briefly detained
and later released.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             883 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Turkey Today

                           November 9, 2016 Wednesday

Turkish stocks tumble on US election results, but shares in Trump Towers
developer surge

LENGTH: 610  words


Donald Trump's victory in the US elections has rattled the world markets and
Turkish assets are no exception. As the news emerged in the early hours of
November 9 suggesting that Trump is moving closer to the White House, the lira
hit a record low of 3.30 against the US dollar. It later gained some ground to
trade at 3.1903 as of 10:40 Istanbul time.

Stocks are down 1.54% and the yield on the 10-year bond eased to 10.48% shortly
after touching 10.53%. But shares in Dogan Holding surged 12% on the elections
results. Dogan and Trump developed Trump Towers, a commercial and residential
complex in Istanbul's central business district, in 2012. Shares in other Dogan
Group companies rose too: Hurriyet was up 9%, Dogan Burda increased 7.6% and
Dogan Gazetecilik gained nearly 6%.

Relations between Turkey and the US have been strained over the past few months.
It is yet to be seen how they will evolve under Trump's administration. In the
run-up to the elections in the US, pro-government media in Turkey appeared to
favour Trump over Clinton because of the latter's comments that she would arm
the YPG Kurdish militia in Syria if she becomes the next president. Those
messages irked Ankara that considers YPG a terrorist organisation because of its
link to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) that launched an insurgency against
the Turkish state in mid-1980s. "What does that mean? Is the US not our ally?
What does it mean to support them - the YPG-with arms?" scolded Primer Minister
Binali Yildirim on October 11, as the Hurriyet Daily News reported. "Fighting
against one terrorist organisation  - Islamic State  - by using another
terrorist organisation was "unacceptable," he said, commenting on Clinton's
remarks.

Pro-government media also suspected ties between Clinton and US-based cleric
Fethullah Gulen, who Ankara says masterminded the failed July 15 coup attempt.
There were reports suggested that supporters of Gulen in the US donated to the
Clinton campaign. Turkey has been asking for the extradition of Gulen. The
government may now hope that the new administration in Washington will finally
hand him over to Turkey.

In an interview with the New York Times back in July, Trump praised Turkish
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan . "I give great credit to him for being able to
turn that - the coup attempt - around.... The people came out of their homes,
and they were not in favour of what the military was doing. So that was quite
impressive from the standpoint of existing government. I will say this: I think
Turkey can do a lot against ISIS, and I would hope that if I'm dealing with
them, they will do much more about ISIS."

When asked about the sweeping purges in the wake of the botched push, Trump
said: "I think right now when it comes to civil liberties, our country has a lot
of problems, and I think it's very hard for us to get involved in other
countries when we don't know what we are doing and we can't see straight in our
own country." His statements give impression that that the new administration
will not give too much headache to Ankara over human rights and freedoms.

"How are we going to lecture - about what they do inside their borders - when
people are shooting our policemen in cold blood. How are we going to lecture
when you see the riots and the horror going on in our own country", Trump said.

A Turkish official told Reuters that the election of Trumps as president will
not cause problems, and the two countries will remain strategic partners. He
expected to see stronger ties, the official said. Trump's earlier statements
that terrorist groups in Syria would not be supported is important for Turkey,
he added.



LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             884 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            January 24, 2000, Monday

U.S. TOUGHENS SUPPORT FOR JAKARTA ALLIES

BYLINE: BY JAY SOLOMON

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1

LENGTH: 22 words


Clinton Administration intensifies support for Indonesia's first democratically
elected government, even as violence spreads (M)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             885 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            March 23, 2000, Thursday

ORIGINATOR OF 'MOM MARCH' HAS TIES TO HILLARY CLINTON

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3

LENGTH: 41 words


Donna Dees-Thomases, organizer of plans planned Million Mom March in Washington
(DC), is a sister-in-law of Susan Thomases, a longtime friend of Hillary Rodham
Clinton, who says she plans to join march for gun safety, May 14, Morther's Day
(M)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             886 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                            August 11, 2000, Friday

LOS ANGELES POLICE PREPARE FOR PROTESTORS AT DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION

BYLINE: BY HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1

LENGTH: 48 words


Los Angeles Police Dept is bracing for 'D2K' demonstrations outside Democratic
national convention that organizers say will be bigger than 'R2K' demonstrations
staged outside Republican convention in Philadelphia; some protesters hope for
confrontation with police; photo, chart (M)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Combination

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             887 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           November 24, 2000, Friday

BURGHER REBELLION: GOP TURNS UP MIAMI HEAT

BYLINE: BY PAUL A GIGOT

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3

LENGTH: 28 words


***Paul Gigot, Potomac Watch column, applauds unruly Republican demonstrators
who cowed Miami-Dade canvassing board into ending recount of Nov 7 presidential
vote (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

TYPE: EDITORIAL COLUMN

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             888 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                              WALL STREET JOURNAL

                           November 27, 2000, Monday

PROTEST IN MIAMI-DADE IS A WELL-ORGANIZED GOP EFFORT

BYLINE: BY NICHOLAS KULISH

SECTION: Section A; Page 40, Column 1

LENGTH: 37 words


Some of the unruly pro-Bush demonstrators who kicked doors and banged on windows
of Miami-Dade County (Fla) election office last week were Capitol Hill aides who
travel expenses are being paid by Bush campaign; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  WSJ

GRAPHIC: Photograph

              Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                             889 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                              May 17, 2005 Tuesday

MAG DEAD WRONG - NEWSWEEK RETRACTS KORAN-TOILET STORY

BYLINE: DEBORAH ORIN Bureau Chief

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 487 words


WASHINGTON - Newsweek yesterday abruptly retracted its collapsing claim that GIs
flushed a Koran down the toilet, after the magazine got blasted by the White
House - and sparked riots that killed at least 17 in the Muslim world.

"Based on what we know now, we are retracting our original story that an
internal military investigation had uncovered Qur'an [Koran] abuse at Guantanamo
Bay," Newsweek editor Mark Whitaker wrote.

Newsweek's belated admission that it was wrong in claiming that a probe had
found interrogators at the detainee camp at the U.S. base in Cuba flushed a
Koran came after days of refusing to budge, even after its lone anonymous source
said he couldn't stand by the story.

Newsweek's bogus report threw relations with key U.S. allies such as Pakistan
and Afghanistan into turmoil and set off deadly riots and U.S. flag-burnings -
the latest yesterday by angry Shiite Muslim students in Pakistan.

White House press secretary Scott McClellan said the retraction is "a good first
step," but Newsweek should do more "to help undo the damage that can be undone .
. . much [of the damage] cannot be undone."

He said Newsweek should spell out "how they got it wrong" and explain to the
Muslim world "the care that the U.S. military takes" to respect Muslim beliefs
and the Koran.

Earlier in the day, before the retraction, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice
said: "It's appalling that this story got out there. I do think it's done a lot
of harm."

Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said: "People are dead . . . People need to be
very careful about what they say, just as people need to be careful about what
they do."

There was special concern about Afghanistan, where some reports claimed a
generally pro-American mood had been turned upside down by the report.

Newsweek spokesman Ken Weine said no staffers have been disciplined, including
the report's authors, Michael Isikoff and John Barry.

Internet bloggers and other scathing critics drew parallels to Dan Rather's
false report about President Bush's National Guard service - which CBS initially
refused to retract.

"Really, I don't want to hear another word about the superior 'responsibility'
of Big Media. Not one more word," fumed University of Tennessee law professor
Glenn Reynolds of Instapundit.com.

This latest media embarrassment also follows the forced exit of CNN's Eason
Jordan for accusing U.S. troops of targeting reporters, and the firing of
several reporters, such as New York Timesman Jayson Blair, for faking stories.

Newsweek's initial Koran-abuse report was a brief item in the magazine's
Periscope column that cited "sources," but the weekly has since admitted the
story rested on only one source.

In another echo of Rathergate, Newsweek had claimed over the weekend that the
fact that a U.S. official didn't instantly dispute the item amounted to
validating it. CBS made the same claim about Bush's Guard service.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNING WITH RAGE: Shiite Muslims in Karachi, Pakistan, burn an
American flag yesterday to protest the alleged desecration of the Koran, as
reported in a now-retracted story in Newsweek (right).    [Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             890 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 25, 2008 Thursday

CHRISTMAS QUIZ - A LOOK BACK AT THE YEAR IN BUSINESS

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 589 words


The best thing to be said about 2008 is good riddance. The annus horribilis
opened with the Dow at 13,000-plus and Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers trading
up a storm (which, of course, was a big part of the problem). Looking for a high
point? Nope. Can't think of one.

1.  With hard cash now king, Dick Grasso's timing was good in winning his
disputed $190 million paycheck from the New York Stock Exchange - a four-year
legal battle that cost:

(a) $12 million (b) $6 million (c) nothing (d) $70 million.

2. Some financial execs weren't lucky enough to keep all of their outsized pay
after wrecking their companies. Who had to return their compensation and h ow
much?

(a) Stanley O'Neal, $161.5 million (b) Angelo Mozilo, $37.5 million (c) Chuck
Prince, $30 million (d) Jimmy Cayne, $61.1 million.

3. Besides legions of lawyers on retainer, who else could make money from the
painful $50 billion Ponzi scheme by admitted swindler Bernie Madoff ?

(a) Journalist Andrew Kirtzman, who's getting a $250,000 advance on the first
Madoff scandal book (b) China, for not investing as much as it could have (c)
Madoff's heirs, for finding out now rather than at the reading of the will (d)
There were no winners.

4. Cash-strapped Madison Avenue did have a highlight: a mysterious, naked couple
videotaped having sex in an ad agency's corner office - the year's hottest
property on industry blogs. The agency was:

(a) BBDO (b) Atmosphere BBDO (c) Saatchi & Saatchi (d) All of them are getting
screwed.

5. While media firms fret about changing technology's impact on their business,
which media stock held up the best?

(a) Time Warner (b) CBS (c) Disney (d) Warner Music.

6. Viacom chief Sumner Redstone nearly slipped off Forbes' richest people list.
Other headaches could include:

(a) Communicating with daughter Shari only by fax (b) His forced sale of $233
million in Viacom and CBS shares (c) Seeing his two CEOs at constant war (d) All
of the above.

7. Since the Fed and US Treasury could be soon handing out more than $1 trillion
in new currency, which logistic step was taken first?

(a) Hiring Swiss engraver KBA-Giori to rebuild presses at the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing to print more money, three times faster (b) Replacing the
aging armored truck fleet doing pickups at Fed banks (c) The early appointment
of a new comptroller of the currency to sign the fresh bills (d) Buying new
shredding machines when it comes time to recall the excess cash.

8. It took a $351 billion federal rescue on Thanksgiving to prevent Citigroup
from collapse, allowing, among other things, its biggest individual shareholder,
Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, to recoup how much during the past month?

(a) $125 million (b) $6.75 billion (c) $1.44 billion (d) Nothing.

9. Ex-Mets player Lenny Dykstra could be turning the last page on his ill-fated
Players Club magazine due to setbacks including:

(a) Getting sued by his accountant for non-payment of fees (b) Being dropped by
a lawyer who defended him against his accountant for not paying his legal bills
(c) A revolving door of editors (d) All the above.

10. If the global recession worsens and spurs riots, the US government blueprint
to stabilize our homeland includes:

(a) Reduced three-day week for all banks and financial markets (b) Printing $14
trillion in new currency ($40,000 per capita) (c) Restructuring all Treasury
debt made prior to December 2008 (d) US Army War College plan for total lockdown
and martial law.

Answers: 1. D; 2. B; 3. A; 4. D; 5. C; 6. D; 7. A; 8. A; 9. D; 10. D

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNT OFFERING: Angelo Mozilo, the one-time boss of mortgage giant
Countrywide, tops Post Business' bad boy list for 2008.  [Post photo composite]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             891 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                 June 25, 2013

Konsensus poll estimates public support for ruling AKP at 47%.

LENGTH: 297  words


A survey, conducted by polling agency Konsensus between June 3 and June 19,
estimates the public support for the ruling AKP at 47.1%. 30.9% of the
respondents said they would vote for the main-opposition centre-left CHP if
general elections were held today. Konsensus also estimates public support for
the nationalist MHP at 14.6% and for the main Kurdish party BDP at 4.6%.

48.9% said they would vote for AKP's candidates if local elections were held
today. The figure for CHP is 31.6%, 13.5% for MHP and 4.6% for BDP. 24.7% of the
respondents suggested that they want the current President Abdullah Gul to keep
his post while 26.7% said they would like to see PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan as
president.

Public opinion surveys are not very reliable as their results differ
significantly. First polls taken after anti-government protests began at the end
of May have drawn very different pictures; In a recent survey Metropoll
estimated the public support for the AKP at 35%, another polling agency Pollmark
put the figure at 51%, Andy-Ar's estimate was 48.8%, and according to a survey
by ANAR the public support for the ruling party was 49%.

There was calm in Turkey's main cities yesterday after police dispersed the
crowd with tear gas and water cannons once again on Saturday in Istanbul's
Taksim Square where thousands of people gathered to commemorate four protesters
and a policeman killed in earlier protests. PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan had a phone
conversation with US President Barack Obama on Monday. Erdogan and Obama
discussed anti-government protests and the Turkish PM described the situation in
Turkey. The two leaders discussed the importance of nonviolence and of the
rights to free expression and assembly and a free press, AFP reported. Erdogan
and Obama also discussed Syria.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             892 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                October 2, 2013

Police, protesters clash near Ukraine's capital Kyiv City Council.

LENGTH: 75  words


According to various sources from 500 to several thousand Ukrainians were
protesting near the Kyiv City Council against holding of the city council
session, demanding new elections. Local police fired tear gas to disperse
protesters trying to enter the city council building in the capital Kiev, police
and opposition activists said. The opposition said five protesters were in the
protest. Around 1pm on Wednesday, the opposition has finished the rally.


LOAD-DATE: October 04, 2013

LANGUAGE: English US

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             895 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               December 11, 2013

Ukraine's UDAR Party leader Vitali Klitschko: attempt to disband pro-EU
protesters closes path to any compromise.

LENGTH: 130  words


UDAR Party leader Vitali Klitschko stated that the attempt to disband pro-EU
protesters on Kyiv's Independence Square made any compromise impossible.

At about 01.00 on Wednesday, December 11, several thousand law enforcement
officers surrounded Independence Square and stormed the barricades and tents put
up by the protesters. The clashes continue as Ukrainian riot police have started
storming the building of the Kiev city administration barricaded by pro-EU
protesters, the media reports. The number of protestors continues to grow.

The EU high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, Catherine
Ashton, is sad to see the police use force against demonstrators, and she is
calling for dialogue, reads a statement issued by the EU representative office
in Ukraine.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             897 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               December 17, 2013

Ukrainian central bank starts withdrawing licences for conducting Fx operations
to maintain hryvnia stability.

LENGTH: 721  words


The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) has withdrawn the licence to perform Fx
currency operations of Brokerage House Opening, local news website Delo.ua
reported. The reason behind the withdrawal has not been announced officially but
it is largely speculated that the central bank is losing control over the
currency market.

Over the past few weeks the market volatility has increased significantly. On
Dec 16, the interbank rate closed at UAH/USD 8.3/1, which is almost 4% higher
than the official NBU's rate.  The cost of the dollar on the cash market has
also exceeded the guidelines of the National Bank. According to recent data, the
average purchase price of the dollar in exchange bureaus reached UAH/USD 8.26/1,
and the sale price - UAH/USD 8.3/1. For the central bank, which states that
maintaining the national currency stability is its top priority, this can be
considered as a failure. As a result, the NBU has started to take appropriate
measures to stabilize the exchange rate of the national currency, writes Delo
newspaper.

Over the recent weeks, the central bank has been trying to limit commercial
banks' hryvnia liquidity, so that resources do not reach the interbank market,
according to Dmitry Boyarchuk, director of the Center for Social and Economic
Research. NBU first offered dollars on the interbank market and thus bought
national currency, thereby balancing the supply/demand. After that, the
regulator reduced the hryvnia sale, expecting the commercial banks to begin
selling dollars cheaper. In a situation of instability, when financial
institutions are facing increased outflow of deposits, this has become an
effective mechanism of influence. An evidence for liquidity problems is the cost
of the average interest rate on overnight loans, which is an indication that
there is a shortage of financial institutions liquidity to meet NBU standards.
The peak was reached on Dec 9, when the rate increased to 21% per annum (on Nov
25, the rate was 5%). Furthermore, on Nov 25, cash balances in the banking
system stood at UAH 25bn and by Dec 16 they declined to UAH 20.8bn.

The NBU has also increased interventions on the foreign currency market - a
mechanism that the central bank has been using for a long time quite
successfully. However, the contraction of foreign reserves (down by 23.45% in
ytd terms from USD 24.55bn as of Jan 1 to USD 18.79bn as of Dec 1), seriously
limits the opportunity of the bank to continue carrying out such interventions.
Ukraine's international reserves are already below all the normative values. The
current reserves will finance imports finance for less than 2.5 months (compared
to an acceptable 3 months), the WB believes.

The central bank is still trying to influence the exchange rate on the interbank
market through interventions by the state-owned banks, however, even they won't
be able to intervene for much longer. December has always been a difficult
period for the national currency-the demand for foreign currency is
traditionally high due to people traveling on New Years' holidays.  However this
year, the pressure is twice as high due to prolonged political crisis in the
country.

Probably the most effective non-monetary but regulatory tool that remains at
NBU's disposal for controlling the situation is the revocation of licences of
the most active speculators on the foreign exchange market. The withdrawal of
the licence of Brokerage House Opening was not the first on the list. Earlier,
the NBU decided to revoke the licence of LLC Sparta Capital and LLC PKTB
Securities. Following the financial companies, the commercial banks may also
fall under the sanctions.

The current problems on the foreign exchange market are not the result of the
recent political events in the country, but the consequences of the problems
that led to these riots, writes Delo newspaper, citing Vladimir Dubrovsky.
According to various estimates, the state budget deficit can reach UAH 100bn
(USD 12.2bn) at year-end. In the absence of a loan agreement with Russia, the
IMF or the EU, the central bank's only option to eliminate this "hole" will be
to start printing money. But additional hryvnia liquidity may prove fatal for
the NBU. Thus the central bank will further try to maintain liquidity of the
banking sector to preserve hryvnia stability.

Source: http://delo.ua/


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             899 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                January 20, 2014

Ukrainian opposition lists 5 conditions for round table negotiations with
president Yanukovych.

LENGTH: 333  words


Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovych has agreed to negotiate with protesters
and opposition leaders after violent clashes in the capital Kyiv. He said a
cross-party commission would be set up to try to resolve the deepening crisis.
In its turn, Ukrainian opposition has named 5 conditions to go to negotiations
table with Yanukovych.

They include:

1. Early elections of parliament and president.

2. New presidential election law and reformatting Central Election Commission.

3. Dismissal of government, formation of interim government.

4. Criminal punishment for Interior Minister Zakharchenko.

5. Abrogation of reactionary laws and amnesty to Maidan protesters.

In the meantime in Kyiv, 61 law-enforcers and 42 protestors were hospitalized
after clashes on January 19-20, reads a statement made by the Internal Affairs
Ministry. Four of the protestors sustained severe injuries.  Periodic clashes
continued as of 2 p.m. on Monday in Kyiv, with protesters throwing stones at
police, who, in turn, fired rubber. During the night police used water cannons
in subzero temperatures as protesters hurled Molotov cocktails.

Police and protesters clashed in the centre of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on
Sunday after anti-government protesters turned up for an opposition rally in a
show of defiance against laws restricting the freedom to rally.

Ukrainian president, on Jan 16, signed the laws that ban almost all forms of
protests. The new laws allow the authorities to jail those who blockade public
buildings for up to five years and permit the arrest of protesters who wear
masks or helmets. The opposition fears that the government will use the new
legislation to prosecute its leaders and break up the protest movement.

Ukraine is facing the largest anti-government protests in almost a decade after
Yanukovych dropped a pact with the EU under Russian pressure. According to
Ukrainian TV channel 5, more than 100,000 people gathered earlier on Sunday at
the Kyiv's main square for the eighth consecutive Sunday.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             901 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                            January 20, 2014 Monday

Ukrainian protesters clash with police.

LENGTH: 250  words


Police and protesters clashed in the centre of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on
Sunday after anti-government protesters turned up for an opposition rally in a
show of defiance against laws restricting the freedom to rally. People wearing
helmets and masks rocked buses used by police to block a street which leads to
parliament building. Police used tear gas and smoke bombs to try to disband
protestors. At least 24 protestors seeked medical assistance after the clashes.

The leader of the UDAR party, Vitali Klitschko, was trying to end the
confrontation by calling on the protesters to stop their aggression against the
police. However, many of the protesters were ignoring Klitschko's calls,
expressing frustration over the lack of a clear programme from the opposition
after Yanukovych turned away from Europe under Russian pressure.

Ukrainian president, on Jan 16, signed the laws that ban almost all forms of
protests. The new laws allow the authorities to jail those who blockade public
buildings for up to five years and permit the arrest of protesters who wear
masks or helmets. The opposition fears that the government will use the new
legislation to prosecute its leaders and break up the protest movement.

Ukraine is facing the largest anti-government protests in almost a decade after
Yanukovych dropped a pact with the EU under Russian pressure. According to
Ukrainian TV channel 5, more than 100,000 people gathered earlier on Sunday at
the Kyiv's main square for the eighth consecutive Sunday.


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             902 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                January 22, 2014

Fitch: Clashes in Ukraine show political uncertainty poses risks.

LENGTH: 575  words


The ongoing clashes between riot police and anti-government protestors in
Ukraine might weaken the confidence and raise the demand for foreign currency
even further, even though Russia's provision of external financing has
considerably lowered the risk of a sovereign external liquidity crisis in 2014,
Fitch Ratings says.

Moreover, political unrest will continue to weigh on Ukraine's credit profile up
until presidential elections which will take place in February 2015,
notwithstanding the Russian agreement, the agency adds.

Antigovernment protests that began in November when president Yanukovych dropped
a pact with the EU under Russian pressure. The clashes in Kyiv renewed with new
force on Sunday after anti-government protesters turned up for an opposition
rally in a show of defiance against laws restricting the freedom to rally. At
least two people were confirmed dead by the Prosecutor General's Office.

The political situation in Ukraine remains very subtle. This is highlighted by
the absence of a co-ordinated opposition programme, the deep-seated nature of
the protestors' objections and the probable impact of any response to the
violence by the international community. All of this means that the crisis is
still far away from being resolved, the Fitch believes.

A weakening of Yanukovich's position during this year may affect Russia's
intentions to continue providing financial aid. If Russian support were
interrupted, the hryvnia, which has fallen on this week's violence, might
experience additional pressure.

The agency believes that Ukrainian government is not going to move towards a
more flexible exchange rate policy, and forecasts the hryvnia to remain at
around USD/UAH8.3 this year following the Russian funding agreement. Russian
financial aid may allow the Ukrainian government to postpone fiscal adjustment
and structural reforms until after the elections. The 2014 budget, passed last
week, raised the consolidated budget deficit target by 1.6pps to 4.3% of GDP.

The agency notes that Ukraine received the first USD 3bn tranche of a promised
USD 15bn in Russian financing on December 24 2013 and plans to place a further
USD 12bn in Eurobonds by end-2014. The schedule and amount of borrowing is still
being discussed. If realized, this would be more than sufficient to refinance
USD 6.7bn in sovereign external debt repayments in 2014, although the government
will still need to borrow elsewhere to finance a widening fiscal deficit of up
to 7% of GDP. In addition, external finances remain a key credit risk that the
Russian deal only eases temporarily.

Ukraine would face a refinancing hump in 2016 if the remaining USD 12bn of
issuance were disbursed this year and had the same maturity as the two-year
bonds issued to Russia in December. It is doubtful that Ukraine could borrow
enough in the market to smooth out its repayment profile, so Russian rollovers
would be necessary.

According to Fitch, Ukraine's external financing position remains fragile. The
current account deficit (CAD) widened to around 8.6% of GDP in 2013. Lower gas
prices could be worth 2% of GDP to the current account, and will reduce the
import bill, however, Fitch forecasts looser fiscal policy to offset some of
these gains, keeping the CAD at 7% of GDP. Although reserves will grow in 2014,
on the assumption that all planned Russian financing is disbursed, reserve
coverage will remain well below three months of imports, the agency notes.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             904 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               February 16, 2014

Ukrainian opposition protesters end two-month occupation of city hall in capital
Kyiv.

LENGTH: 520  words


Ukrainian opposition protesters ended a two-month occupation of Ukraine's
capital's city hall on Feb 16. In addition, protestors dismantled barricades
blocking the Hrushevskoho Street in Kyiv. The authorities, for their part,
withdrew riot police from a flashpoint district of the capital, near the Dynamo
Kiev football stadium, on Hrushevskoho Street. The interior ministry said
occupied government buildings in four other cities in Ukraine had also been
vacated.

The opposition was occupying the Kyiv's city hall since December after
Yanukovych walked away from the EU deal last November in favour of closer ties
with Russia. However, in a peace-making gesture, up to 700 protesters evacuated
the building in response to a last-minute concession by authorities to release
all protesters detained in unrest. On Feb 14, the authorities have announced
that they have freed all 234 people detained in the protest movement and
promised to drop charges too if some occupied parts of Kyiv were vacated.

We see the protestors' decision to leave the city hall as a significant
concession, which may finally lead to diminishing political crisis in Ukraine.
However, the opposition leaders continue to demand Yanukovych to resign, form a
new pro-Western government and return to 2004 version of constitution. Until
those requirements are met, activists say the Euromaidan movement will continue
- and they could re-occupy the buildings that they have recently evacuated.

In the mean-time, Ukraine's international reserves declined to USD 17.8bn in
January from the already low level of USD 20.4bn at end-2013, reducing the
buffer available to the sovereign to service external debt. Political turmoil in
the country has added to a weakening in confidence in the Ukrainian hryvnia and
in the exchange rate policy. The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) sold at least
USD 2bn to support the currency since the beginning of January, and the hryvnia
has depreciated 7% against the USD. Even though, orderly currency depreciation
may help external adjustment (the current account deficit reached 8.9% of GDP in
2013) and ration NBU reserves, there is a risk of a steep and uncontrolled
depreciation. Political uncertainty raises the risks of capital flight and
financial instability.

At the same time, according to Reuters, Ukraine's sovereign bonds remained
comparatively resistant to default fears arising from rising political tensions.
However, the further devaluation of the national currency could potentially harm
the corporate and banking sector.  During last two weeks, Moody's, S&P and Fitch
have lowered their ratings on Ukraine and consequently on Ukrainian corporates.
According to Fitch, the corporate rating actions reflect the increased
uncertainty regarding the political and economic situation in the Ukraine which
may ultimately threaten companies' ability to meet both their foreign and local
currency obligations.

Without external financial support, Ukraine will not be able to avoid default in
the near future, however, we believe that either Russia (which seems more
likely) or the West will ultimately come to the "rescue ".


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             906 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               February 18, 2014

Deadly clashes erupt in Ukraine once again.

LENGTH: 281  words


Violent clashes have erupted between protesters and police in Ukraine's capital,
Kyiv on Tuesday, Feb 18. According to various media sources, up to twenty people
are reported dead. The clashes prompted the security service and Interior
Ministry to set an evening deadline for the opposition to halt protests or face
restoration of order by force. Kyiv's authorities decided to shut down subway
system in order to prevent more people coming into Kyiv's center. Police used
rubber bullets and stun grenades to stop thousands of protesters marching on
parliament.

On Tuesday morning, opposition leaders Arseniy Yatsenyuk, and Oleh Tyahnybok,
led thousands of demonstrators into Mariyinskyi Park, located next to the
parliament building, before police stopped the advance, triggering clashes. The
clashes came as MPs were about to debate changes to the constitution that would
lessen the presidents' "powers".

Russia, on Monday, said it would purchase USD 2bn tranche of USD 15bn bailout
deal that it had essentially frozen since protests escalated last month. The
latest violence came as Ukraine seemed to be move slowly towards resolving the
turmoil when the authorities on Monday granted an amnesty to arrested protestors
after the opposition vacated Kyiv's city hall.

The escalation of crisis pushed Ukraine's foreign-exchange reserves to a
seven-year low. The hryvnia depreciated 0.3% to 8.8850 per dollar, the weakest
level in five years on a closing basis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Ukraine's bonds rallied the most in two months on the resumption of Russian aid,
with the yield on dollar notes due in June falling 4.46pps to 17.70% by 1:16
p.m. in Kyiv, writes Bloomberg.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             908 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               February 19, 2014

Deadly violence in Ukraine's capital continues, death toll rises to 25.

LENGTH: 347  words


The deadly violence continued in Ukraine's capital over the night and during
Wednesday, bringing the total number of dead to 25 people. Representatives of
protesters said one journalist was shot dead. Ukrainian riot police fought
protesters occupying a central Kyiv central square during the night.  The latest
assault on the square began around 04:00 local time on Wednesday, when police
tried to move on the protesters' tents. Fireworks are being thrown and large
fires can been seen. Police confirmed the unrest has spread to western Ukraine,
with protesters attacking police and local government offices in a number of
regions.

Kyiv's subway system remains shut by the authorities in order to prevent more
people coming into Kyiv's center. In addition, the authorities have restricted
traffic coming into the capital to stop protesters from getting reinforcements.

Western governments urged restraint and dialogue. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden
called Yanukovych, advising him to pull back government forces, the White House
said, writes Reuters. Opposition leaders Vitaly Klitschko and Arseny Yatsenyuk
stated that they had quit talks with Yanukovych without reaching any agreement
on how to end the violence.

On Tuesday morning, opposition leaders Arseniy Yatsenyuk, and Oleh Tyahnybok,
led thousands of demonstrators into Mariyinskyi Park, located next to the
parliament building, before police stopped the advance, triggering clashes. The
clashes came as MPs were about to debate changes to the constitution that would
lessen the presidents' "powers".

Russia, on Monday, said it would purchase USD 2bn tranche of USD 15bn bailout
deal that it had essentially frozen since protests escalated last month.
However, on Wednesday, the  Kremlin deflected questions about when Russia would
release the second tranche, saying ending the violent upheaval was the main
priority.

The latest violence came as Ukraine seemed to be move slowly towards resolving
the turmoil when the authorities on Monday granted an amnesty to arrested
protestors after the opposition vacated Kyiv's city hall.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             909 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

Deadly violence in Ukraine's capital continues, death toll rises to 25.

LENGTH: 314  words


The deadly violence continued in Ukraine's capital over the night, bringing the
total number of dead to 25 people. Representatives of protesters said one
journalist was shot dead. Ukrainian riot police fought protesters occupying a
central Kyiv central square during the night.  The latest assault on the square
began around 04:00 local time, when police tried to move on the protesters'
tents. Fireworks are being thrown and large fires can been seen. Police
confirmed the unrest has spread to western Ukraine, with protesters attacking
police and local government offices in a number of regions.

Kyiv's subway system remains shut by the authorities in order to prevent more
people coming into Kyiv's center. In addition, the authorities have restricted
traffic coming into the capital to stop protesters from getting reinforcements.

Western governments urged restraint and dialogue. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden
called Yanukovych, advising him to pull back government forces, the White House
said, writes Reuters.  Opposition leaders Vitaly Klitschko and Arseny Yatsenyuk
stated that they had quit talks with Yanukovych without reaching any agreement
on how to end the violence.

On Tuesday morning, opposition leaders Arseniy Yatsenyuk, and Oleh Tyahnybok,
led thousands of demonstrators into Mariyinskyi Park, located next to the
parliament building, before police stopped the advance, triggering clashes. The
clashes came as MPs were about to debate changes to the constitution that would
lessen the presidents' "powers".

Russia, on Monday, said it would purchase USD 2bn tranche of USD 15bn bailout
deal that it had essentially frozen since protests escalated last month. The
latest violence came as Ukraine seemed to be move slowly towards resolving the
turmoil when the authorities on Monday granted an amnesty to arrested protestors
after the opposition vacated Kyiv's city hall.



LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             910 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                               February 20, 2014

Yanukovych ready for early elections: Polish PM.

LENGTH: 111  words


The EU government has agreed to halt assets belonging to Ukrainian officials and
deny them travel visas, bringing pressure on President Viktor Yanukovych to stop
the violence between security forces and protesters.

In addition, the EU foreign ministers meeting in Brussels made a decision to
suspend Ukraine export licenses for equipment such as riot gear used for
"internal repression," EU foreign-policy chief Catherine Ashton told. At the
same time, according to Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk, Ukrainian President
Viktor Yanukovych has told the foreign ministers of Germany, France and Poland
that he is ready to hold early parliamentary and presidential elections.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             911 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                           February 20, 2014 Thursday

Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych ready for early elections: Polish PM.

LENGTH: 111  words


The EU government has agreed to halt assets belonging to Ukrainian officials and
deny them travel visas, bringing pressure on President Viktor Yanukovych to stop
the violence between security forces and protesters.

In addition, the EU foreign ministers meeting in Brussels made a decision to
suspend Ukraine export licenses for equipment such as riot gear used for
"internal repression," EU foreign-policy chief Catherine Ashton told. At the
same time, according to Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk, Ukrainian President
Viktor Yanukovych has told the foreign ministers of Germany, France and Poland
that he is ready to hold early parliamentary and presidential elections.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             913 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                 April 23, 2014

Petro Poroshenko set to win in Ukraine's presidential elections on May 25

LENGTH: 2195  words


In pre-election polls from March 2014, Petro Poroshenko was the highest rated of
all the prospective candidates. He has emerged as the leader in opinion polls of
snap presidential elections (scheduled for May 25) after on March 29, Vitali
Klitschko, who was coming second, pulled out of the race in favour of
Poroshenko. Klitschko instead decided to run for mayor of Kyiv. This left
Poroshenko in a race for presidency against former PM Yulia Tymoshenko, Party of
Regions MP Mikhailo Dobkin, right-wing Svoboda party head Oleh Tyahnybok, and
others. Yulia Tymoshenko - for whom Poroshenko served as foreign minister - is
now one of his main rivals.

It is worth noting that this will be the first time in Ukraine's independent
history there will be no opposition between `democratic - pro-Western' and
`oligarchic - pro-Russian' candidates as well as no apparent rivalry between
`east' and `west' candidates. Poroshenko comes from the east of the country, he
is a wealthy businessman, however has strongly pro-western views. The same goes
for Tymoshenko, who comes from Dnipropetrovks (east), however, is also
pro-western. At the same time, it will be interesting to see if she will be able
to maintain the support that she used to have. It is difficult to talk about
differences of their election campaigns as most of candidates (who are likely to
get into the second round) have more or less the same agenda.

Prior to the 2014 uprising that ousted Viktor Yanukovych from the presidential
post, Ukraine had seen years of corruption, mismanagement, lack of economic
growth and an inability. The ousted president Yanukovych wanted to establish
closer relations with the EU and Russia in order to raise the capital necessary
to maintain Ukraine's standard of living without affecting the local population.
One of these measures was supposed to be an Association Agreement with the
European Union. At first, Yanukovych considered the outcomes to be fair,
however, in the end, he refused to sign the agreement considering it too austere
and detrimental to Ukraine. Instead, Yanukovych signed an agreement with Russia
sparking civil unrest in the country that ultimately led to violent clashes
between protestors and law enforcement officers. At the end of February,
Yanukovych fled the country and has not returned so far.

After the revolution, Russia has refused recognise the new interim government,
calling the revolution an overthrow of power and decided to seize control of the
Crimean Peninsula in Ukraine citing its need to protect its interests in the
region.

In the mean-time, the interim government of Ukraine signed the political part of
Association Agreement with the EU and promised to adopt reforms in its judiciary
and political system, as well as in its financial and economic policies, in
order to comply with the provisions set in the agreement.

As of early April, the Central Election Commission (CEC) has completed the
registration of candidates for president of Ukraine. Twenty three candidates
will participate in the presidential race, including seven of them nominated by
political parties and 16 independent candidates.

Main candidates:

Petro Poroshenko

Petro Poroshenko, is one of the richest men in Ukraine worth an estimated USD
1.3bn. He has been involved in national politics since 1998. Poroshenko has been
elected to parliament several times and has worked with both the pro-European
and pro-Russian political camps in Ukraine. He was foreign minister in
Tymoshenko's government from 2009 to 2010, and briefly an economic development
and trade minister in 2012.  He was one of the founders of Viktor Yanukovych's
Party of Regions.

After helping to set it up in 2001, however, he left the same year to lead
Viktor Yushchenko's Our Ukraine electoral bloc.  He was also one of the main
figures of the Orange Revolution that got Yushchenko and Tymoshenko to power in
2004. Poroshenko is known as "the chocolate king" for his ownership of Ukraine's
largest confectionery manufacturer, Roshen. Moreover, he also owns 5 Kanal TV,
the most popular news channel in Ukraine, which has shown clear pro-opposition
sympathies during the political crisis.

Poroshenko believes in Ukraine's future in Europe, however still intends to mend
relations with Russia. He is an experienced MP, though currently unaffiliated to
any of the country's political parties, and the only tycoon to have supported
the pro-European opposition from the start.  He pledges to implement local
governance reform, grant more powers to the country's regions, facilitate
economic reforms, and improve the investment climate.

Some of Poroshenko's promises:

Yulia Tymoshenko

Yulia Tymoshenko, leader of the Batkivshchyna Party, will also be running for
president of Ukraine on May 25.  Tymoshenko is the leader of the All-Ukrainian
Union "Fatherland" political party, which received the second most votes in the
2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election, winning 101 of parliament's 450 seats.

Tymoshenko finished second in the Ukrainian 2010 presidential election runoff
after Viktor Yanukovych. Following the election, a number of criminal cases were
brought against her. On October 11, 2011, she was convicted of embezzlement and
abuse of power, and sentenced to seven years in prison and ordered to pay the
state USD 188mn. The prosecution and conviction were viewed by many countries
and international organisations - most prominently the European Union - as
politically biassed.

Tymoshenko was freed in February 2014 under legislation passed by parliament as
Yanukovych's pro-Russian government collapsed under the pressure of mass
protests and clashes between demonstrators and security forces.

Prior to her political career, Tymoshenko was a successful but controversial
businesswoman in the gas industry, becoming by some estimates one of the richest
people in the country. In 2005 she placed third in the Forbes Magazine list of
the world's most powerful women. When she was prime minister, until spring 2010,
Tymoshenko had a working relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin. But
as mass demonstrations against Yanukovych's regime gained momentum last year,
she intensified her calls for Ukraine to pursue a pro-Western course and
integrate with the European Union.Some of Tymoshenko promises:

Mykhailo Dobkin

Mykhailo Dobkin is a Ukrainian politician, former governor of Kharkiv Oblast,
former mayor of Kharkiv, and former deputy of the Verkhovna Rada. In 2014, he
created a Ukrainian Front organisation, in support of Viktor Yanukovych, stating
the intention to "clean and purify our Ukrainian land of those who come here
with plans for occupation."  After Yanukovich was forced out of power, Dobkin
was a major participant in a meeting of local officials in Eastern Ukraine which
questioned the legality of the new government's actions and declared local
officials would take responsibility for their own regions until order was
restored.

He has indicated that he intends to run for president in the upcoming election
due to his concerns regarding the behaviour of the revolutionary government
towards the Russophone population. Dobkin tendered his resignation as governor
on 26 February 2014 to run for presidency. On March 10, 2014, Dobkin was
arrested on charges of leading a separatist movement.

Dobkin advocates a federalization of Ukraine's regions. Ukraine joining the
Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia, "rapid restoration of friendly
and partnership relations with Russia, as well as the creation of a common
humanitarian space", "defending the joint Russian-Ukrainian history, culture and
traditions", maintaining Ukraine's neutral status, tax relief in the
agricultural sector over the next 15 years and the formation of an army purely
on contract basis.

On March 25 Dobkin filed documents to the Central Election Commission on an
election of the president. On March 29, the Party of Regions convention
supported Dobkin's nomination as a presidential candidate.

His presidential campaign includes:

Petro Symonenko

Petro Symonenko is a Ukrainian politician and the First Secretary of the Central
Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Symonenko was the Communist Party's
candidate in both the 1999 and 2004 presidential elections. During the 2010
presidential election he was the candidate of the Bloc of Left and Center-left
Forces, receiving 3.54% of the votes.

Symonenko is against Ukraine's involvement in the military- political blocs,
especially in NATO. According to him, everything must be done to restore good
relations with the CIS countries, primarily Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan.
Moreover, he wants to terminate any relations with the IMF and the EU as well as
to revise Ukraine's membership in the WTO.

Opinion Polls

Almost 84% of Ukrainians are ready to go to polling stations during the
presidential elections on May 25, according a survey conducted by the Socis
Center for Social and Marketing Research, Kyiv International Institute of
Sociology, the Rating Sociological Group and the Razumkov Center.

Some 58.7% of respondents are fully convinced that they will go to the polls,
25% will probably take part in the vote, 4.5% will probably not go to polling
stations, and 6.5% will definitely not participate in the vote. Some 5.4% of
respondents were undecided.

About 25% of the respondents are willing to support Petro Poroshenko's candidacy
at the presidential elections on May 25. Some 8.9% of the respondents will vote
for Vitalii Klitschko, 8.2% for Yulia Tymoshenko, 7.3% for Serhii Tyhypko, and
4.2% for Mykhailo Dobkin, said RATING Sociological Group's Director Oleksii
Antypovych. However, 14.1% refused to answer, 9.7% will not support any of the
presidential candidates, and 5.8% will ignore the elections.

If Poroshenko and Tymoshenko step in to the second round, 46.3% will vote for
Poroshenko, 11.6% for Tymoshenko, 23.3% against both, 18.7% have not decided yet
or will not vote in the run-off. Around 50.8% of the respondents will vote for
Poroshenko if he competes with Tyhypko in the run-off; 14.4% for Tyhypko, 15.7%
against both, and 19.1% have not decided yet or will not vote in the run-off.

The survey conducted in all regions of Ukraine, except for the Autonomous
Republic of Crimea, between March 14 and 19 polled 6,200 respondents above 18.
The sampling error does not exceed +/- 0.8%.

Legislation

The term of office for the Ukrainian president is five years. If no candidate
obtains an absolute majority in the first round, then the two highest polling
candidates will contest a run-off second round.

The President has limited authority to disband the Verkhovna Rada (parliament),
and nominates candidates for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of
Defence in the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. Six out of eighteen of the
Constitutional Court judges are appointed by the President. Decisions of the
President are subject to review by Ukraine's courts with the Constitutional
Court having the sole authority and power to declare decrees of the president
unconstitutional. While in office, the president enjoys the right of immunity.

To adopt an impeachment resolution, a minimum two-thirds of the parliament must
support the impeachment procedure. To remove the President from office, a
minimum three-quarters of parliament must support the resolution. The
Constitutional and the Supreme Court of Ukraine's conclusions and decisions are
considered at the parliamentary meetings.


Ratings of potential                   Out of total    Out of those who will
candidates at Presidential               questioned   definitely vote in the
Elections on May 25                                                elections
Petro Poroshenko                               24.9                     36.2
Vitali Klitschko                                8.9                     12.9
Yulia Tymoshenko                                8.2                     12.0
Sergiy Tehipko                                  7.3                     10.0
Mykhailo Dobkin                                 4.2                      5.3
Petro Symonenko                                 3.6                      5.0
Oleh Lyashko                                    3.5                      5.0
Anatoliy Gritsenko                              3.2                      4.6
Oleh Tiahnybok                                  1.7                      2.5
Dmytro Yarosh                                   0.9                      1.4
Viktor medvedchyk                               0.4                      0.7
Other candidate                                 3.4                      4.4
Undecided                                      14.1                      n/a
Against all                                     9.7                      n/a
Will not participate                            5.8                      n/a
Source: Socis Center for
Social and Marketing
Research, Kyiv International
Institute of Sociology, the
Rating Sociological Group
and the Razumkov Center.
*Poll conducted prior to
Vitali Klitschko decision
not to run for President

               Yanuko Tihipk Dobki Klitsc Tymosh Tyahny Symone Porosh
                 vych      o     n    hko   enko    bok    nko   enko
Date    Pollin    PoR Indepe   PoR   UDAR Batkiv Svobod    CPU Indepe
        g Firm         ndent              shchyn      a         ndent
                                               a
17-26    SOCIS   29.5    n/a   n/a   21.6   20.8    4.7    5.7   13.0
Jan
24       SOCIS   29.2    n/a   n/a   22.8   19.1    2.8    4.3   15.9
Jan-1
Feb
Yanukov
ych
ousted
and
Crimean
crisis
begins
28        KIIS    n/a   13.3   n/a   20.1   13.9    2.8    8.3   32.8
Feb-3
Mar
25       SOCIS    n/a    9.6   n/a   21.3   14.1    3.6    6.4   30.9
Feb-4
Mar
1-6 Mar Social    n/a   11.4   n/a   14.2   15.5    3.7    6.4   13.7
        Monito
          ring
        Centre
Viktor
Yanukov
ych
officia
lly
withdra
ws
4-18       GfK    n/a    8.5   5.0   19.0   12.0    1.5    7.0   39.5
Mar
14-19   SOCIS,    n/a   10.0   5.3   12.9   12.0    2.5    5.0   36.2
Mar      KIIS,
        RATING
             ,
        Razumk
            ov
        Centre
14-26   Intern    n/a    9.0   4.5   15.5   17.0    4.5    4.5   32.5
Mar     ationa
             l
        Republ
          ican
        Instit
           ute
Vitali
Klitsch
ko
withdra
ws in
order
to run
for
mayor
of
Kiev,
endorse
s
Poroshe
nko
Mykhail
o
Dobkin
is
selecte
d by
Party
of
Regions
as
their
Preside
ntial
nominee
,
Viktor
Yanukov
ych is
officia
lly
expelle
d from
the
Party
of
Regions
31-Mar  Advanc    n/a   19.6   1.2    n/a   12.7    3.6    3.5     42
            ed
         Legal
        Initia
         tives
Serhiy
Tihipko
is
expelle
d from
the
Party
of
Regions
28      Razumk    n/a    8.8   5.2    n/a   19.1    2.3    4.6   42.3
Mar-2       ov
Apr     Centre
             ,
        RATING


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             915 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                  May 16, 2014

Death toll rises to 284 in Turkey' coal mine disaster.

LENGTH: 247  words


The death toll in Turkey's worst mining disaster increased to 284, energy
minister Taner Yildiz said Thursday but he did not give information about how
many more miners are still trapped in the coal mine in the town of Soma in
western Turkey.

The government has promised an investigation into the accident and vowed to
bring those responsible to account but the disaster in Soma is now becoming a
political issue as the public's anger is building. Trade unions held a one-day
nationwide protest strike and protesters clashed with police in Istanbul on
Thursday.

Erdogan, who visited the town earlier this week, was heckled by a hostile crowd
and he had to seek refuge in a supermarket. On Thursday, a video emerged showing
that Erdogan allegedly slapped a resident of Soma in that supermarket. The man
told a news channel that PM's bodyguards also punched him. Pro-government media
did not cover this story and the coverage in other media outlets were limited.
One of Erdogan's advisers, Yusuf Yerkel, also sparked outrage after he was
captured on cameras kicking a mourner in Soma as the mourner was wrestled to the
ground by police officers. The adviser admitted kicking the person and
apologized but said that he was provoked and insulted.

Turkey could see a new wave of protests in the coming days. The government is
under fire over the Soma disaster that added pressure on Erdogan just two weeks
before the first anniversary of the start of mass anti-government protests last
summer.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             918 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                  May 23, 2014

One killed, nine people injured in Istanbul as protesters clash with police.

LENGTH: 254  words


A man was shot in the head and killed in Istanbul's Okmeydani district on
Thursday as protesters clashed with police.

Security forces tried to disperse a group of youth denouncing the government's
response to the deaths of 301 miners last week and a clash broke out as
protesters threw stones and petrol bombs. However, the man, who was shot in the
head, was not part of the protest and reportedly was attending a funeral at a
nearby place of worship of Alevi religious minority. The incident sparked
further violence in the district that is home to many Alevis and in some other
parts of the city. Clashes continued later in Okmeydani and at least nine people
were injured, including seven policemen, as protestors hurled homemade bombs.

Turkey's Alevis have long complained about PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan's what they
call offensive remarks about the religious minority. The latest incident in
Okmeydani came just days before Erdogan's planned visit to Germany. Erdogan will
attend a rally in the German city of Cologne on May 24 to address around 20,000
AKP supporters. German police sources said that the opponents of Erdogan,
including Alevi groups in Germany, are also planning a protest against the
event.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel called on Erdogan to be restrained in a speech
he will deliver in Cologne, Reuters reported. Merkel reportedly said that
Erdogan has often made such appearances in Germany and she assumes Erdogan knows
how sensitive this event is, especially this time, and that he will act
responsibly.


LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             925 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

Poroshenko calls grenade attack outside Ukraine parliament a "stab in the back"

LENGTH: 449  words


In an address to the nation, President Petro Poroshenko called a grenade attack
against police defending parliament against nationalist protestors on August 31
as a "stab in the back" for Ukraine.

The attack killed one policeman and severely injured another two, with 120
reported injured in the attack. Others were reportedly injured by gunshot fire.

The attack has split the political alliance beween nationalists and liberals
that came to power in February 2014, ousting the former pro-Russian president
Viktor Yanukovych after months of protests, and bringing the liberal-minded
Poroshenko to power in May 2014.

The violent protests on August 31 outside the parliament, led by the West
Ukrainian nationalist Svoboda party, were against a law voted through by
parliament on August 31 to provide some autonomy to territories in East Ukraine
currently held by Russian-backed rebels.

A Svoboda supporter and member of a Ukrainian irregular volunteer batallion
taking part in the protest was detained and charged with throwing the grenade.

"How can you call events that unfolded near the Verkhovna Rada other than a stab
in the back? It was an anti-Ukrainian action for which all organizers, all
representatives of political forces without any exception must carry full
responsibility," Poroshenko said in his address to the nation in the evening of
August 31.

"They have attempted to storm the parliament. They have thrown a grenade. They
have targeted a serviceman of the National Guard in his heart and killed him!
They have wounded around 120 servicemen and police officers - many of whom took
part in the Anti-Terrorist Operation [against Russian-backed rebels in East
Ukraine], some of them are decorated with state awards," Poroshenko added.

Apart from the alleged perpetrator, another 30 protestors were detained,
according to the interior ministry. According to the prosecutor general, a
criminal investigation has been launched into murder, violence against law
enforcers, violation of public order and rioting.

The events of August 31 are now pitting Poroshenko and Prime Minister Arseny
Yatsenyuk against their former ally Oleh Tyahnibok, leader of Svoboda, who was
prominent in the protests.

Tyahnibok was one of the driving forces behind the mass anti-government protests
in the centre of Kyiv during the winter of 2013-2014 that finally ousted
Yanukovych in February 2014, bringing Yatsenyuk to power as prime minister, with
Poroshenko elected president in May 2014.

"I see that the government has resolved to systematically destroy the
nationalist movement. They can't contemplate the existence of any nationalist
opposition movement," blogged Svoboda-linked commentator Oleksandr Aronets.


LOAD-DATE: September 02, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             926 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Radical Party quits Ukrainian government

LENGTH: 191  words


Populist Oleh Lyashko's Radical Party has quit Ukraine's ruling coalition to
join the opposition, after voting against a government-backed bill on
decentralisation that sparked violent protests outside the parliament leading to
the death of three police men.

"On behalf of the Radical Party faction, I am announcing our decision to
withdraw from the coalition," Lyashko said on September 1, as quoted by news
agency Interfax.

He accused the former coalition partners of siding with the pro-Russian
Opposition Bloc  when voting for the decentralisation bill.

Lyashko said that heads of parliament committees nominated by the Radical Party
would resign. Deputy prime minister for infrastructure, Radical Party member
Valeriy Voschevsky also announced his resignation.

The Radical Party's exit from the governing coalition threatens the coalition
with the loss of its constitutional majority of two-thirds of deputies, seen as
important to implement sweeping reforms of state structure and judiciary.

Radical Party won 7.4% of the vote in parliamentary elections in October 2014,
after Lyashko had taken 8% of the vote in presidential elections in May 2014.


LOAD-DATE: September 02, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             928 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                October 11, 2015

Protesters against terrorist attacks rally in Turkey and Europe, pointing the
finger at Ankara

LENGTH: 1520  words


The death toll from the October 10 twins blasts at a peace rally has now reached
more than 100, say opposition politicians, as thousands of demonstrators in
Turkish cities and around the world took to the streets to vent their fury at
the Turkish government and its failure to stem the violence that's wracking the
country.

Some 10,000 demonstrators in Istanbul chanted anti-government slogans denouncing
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, saying: "We will not give up without destroying
the head of the palace", "The state is the killer", and "We know the murderers".
Demonstrators also gathered in Ankara, where they clashed with police forces
after officers reportedly blocked a road in order to allow ambulances to pass;
in Izmir on the shores of the Aegean Sea; and in smaller towns including Batman
and Diyarbakir in Anatolia, where police reportedly used tear gas to disperse
the rally.

The Turkish diaspora also rallied in some of the largest cities in Europe
including Paris, where an estimated 1,000 mostly Kurdish protesters heeded calls
from the Kurdish Democratic Council in France and gathered in Place de la
Republique to manifest their disgust with the "cowardly attack". Another 400
protesters gathered in Strasbourg, according to AFP, and several hundred in the
southern port of Marseille. In Zurich, police reported that 1,000 peaceful
protesters took to the streets, some holding up signs that read "Stop state
terror in Turkey".

As Turkey began to burry the victims of the twin bomb attacks in Ankara, the
government released the names of 98 victims, which include two deputies from the
Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and 10 from the opposition Republican
People's Party (CHP). According to the HDP, the number of people killed in the
bombing stands at 128, all but eight of whom have been identified and their
names published by the HDP's crisis desk.

Twitter account @dilkocer is going through the list and publishing separate
tweets for each victim, including their photograph and some background
information. An already inflamed social media has reacted strongly to news that
nine-year-old Veysel Deniz Atilgan lost his life in the attacks, with ironic
comments condemning the heroes that would murder a child.

Whodunnit?

No group has claimed responsibility for the attacks yet, but the mostly
anti-establishment protesters seemed to agree with Turkish MP Lutfu Turkkan, who
tweeted after the bombing that the  attack "was either a failure by the
intelligence service, or it was done by the intelligence service".

According to a Turkish news agency report police had detained 14 suspected IS
members in the central Turkish city of Konya, but it was not clear if the
detentions were related to the twin blasts in Ankara.

The attacks occurred outside the Ankara train station where an estimated 14,000
protesters were attending a peaceful rally organised by several NGOs - the
Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions (KESK), the Confederation of
Revolutionary Trade Unions of Turkey (DISK), the Turkish Medical Association
(TTB) and the Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects (TMMOB). The
first bomb exploded amidst protesters of the pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic
Party (HDP), who had not begun the march yet, and were holding hands chanting
anti-government slogans. The second blast was seconds after and hit
demonstrators of the pro-Partizan Kaldirac Party, who happened to be amidst the
larger group of HDP protesters.

Shortly after the attacks, the HDP, the main target group, issued a statement
addressed to the international community in which it complained that, "there
were no police around the crime scene when the explosion occurred. The riot
(police) arrived at the place after 15 minutes. But when they arrived, they
attacked people who wanted to help the injured with tear gas bombs". If their
claims are correct, it would make the Ankara protests an exception to the rule
in Turkey, where protests are conducted under heavy police control. The HDP
statement also spoke about a previous attack on them, at 6:00am on October 10,
which was an attempt to damage their headquarters in Ankara, and which the HDP
claims is connected to the bomb blasts four hours later.

Ankara's official position is that the blasts were carried out by two suicide
bombers, according to Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. The state-run Anadolu News
Agency quoted two security officials, who asked not to be named, who claimed
that the bombs were "made of TNT explosives with metal balls added to make
projectiles" - a method reminiscent of the deadly bomb blast in Suruc on July
20, for which IS claimed responsibility. IS' Turkey Twitter account
congratulated the attack, but didn't claim responsiblity.

At the same time, Davutoglu was quoted late last week claiming that Turkey had
arrested many suicide bombers who were trying to cross the border from Iraq. If
the accounts are corroborated, the most likely affiliation of the presumed
suicide bombers would be the Kurdish militant group PKK, because IS has no
control over Turkey's border with Iraq. Twitter was full on October 10 with
responses of "disgust" at media reports that the PKK could be behind the attacks
against pro-Kurdish protesters, and complaints that this was a staged attack to
coincide with the PKK's calls for a unilateral ceasefire.

Dr Can Erimtan, an independent scholar, historian, journalist and writer
residing in Istanbul, says it's "obvious" that there is a connection between the
October 10 twin attacks in Ankara and what happened in Suruc on July 20. "It is
the same methodology... Voices have emerged in Turkey accusing the government of
colluding with the IS for these attacks and of employing IS to counteract the
growth of the Kurdish movement in Turkey. What happened yesterday bares the
hallmarks of that, and it would stand to reason that there could be some
government complicity in there."

Emritan believes the only party that will benefit from this is the AKP. "The
first reaction of people might be that the HDP will now get more sympathy votes,
which may be true, but the Kurds are a limited group - 10% of the population,
and the sympathy vote will be minor. On the other hand, the AKP's electorate is
concerned with terrorist attacks and will turn to the government for protection
and safeguarding. So I think that the only one who will benefit from this attack
is the ruling party," he says.

A strange aside is that on October 10 journalist Mehmet Faraç of Halk TV
revealed that a Twitter user using the handle @AnatoliTodorov and going by the
name of Pir Ozan Abdal had tweeted a series of statements between 12am and 1am
on October 10 in which he described a big terrorist attack that would take place
at the Ankara. The Twitter account has since been closed, but left-leaning
social media picked up on them and they are circulating on Turkish websites.

Translations of the tweets are as follows:

*A legal rally is organized by KESK, DISK (unions). But things can change
dramatically given the current political atmosphere in the country

*(Pro-Kurdish) HDP supporters will be there. Their presence may anger Turkish
nationalists and the state.

*There will be a huge crowd at Ankara rally, a possible police intervention
could result in a catastrophe like the one back in 1977's May Day rally.

*The scariest scenario: an attack like the one in Suruc. A possible bomb attack
could result in one of the deadliest massacres.

T-21 until snap elections

The timing of the bomb blasts is highly sensitive, as Turkey will be holding
snap elections on November 1, after a similar round of elections in June failed
to deliver a coalition government. Violence has escalated in the months since
the first elections, after the ceasefire between the PKK and Ankara was ended
and the ethnic conflict that has divided Turkey for decades was reignited.

Whoever was behind Saturday's attacks, their intention is clear: to disseminate
panic and wreak havoc, and to further accentuate the schisms in Turkish society
and politics. That the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) would seek
to exacerbate the polarisation in Turkish society is in line with what the
Erdogan administration has pursued since 2010, according to Dr Zenonas Tziarras,
an analyst on security and Turkey at the Europe Levant Observatory of the
University of Nicosia.

"What Erdogan is doing, and the violence that he has brought upon his country
may play a very negative role on the results of the November (parliamentary)
elections for his party," he told bne Intellinews. A victimised HDP could secure
enough popular sympathy to garner at least 13% of the votes, as it did back in
the June elections, he added.

Other observers claim that the contrary is true; that creating an environment of
insecurity would dissuade voters, particularly those residing in large cities
like Ankara, Izmir, and Istanbul - a large percentage of whom are
anti-establishment - from heading to the voting stations in November. That would
grant the governing AKP a distinct advantage at the polls, as Turkey's rural
electorate is likely to vote for the ruling party.



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             929 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Ukraine This Week

                                October 12, 2015

Ukraine nationalist leaders raided over Maidan killings amid crackdown

LENGTH: 1231  words


Ukrainian prosecutors have raided the homes of top leaders of the nationalist
Svoboda party as part of a pre-trial investigation into the massacre of
anti-government protestors on the Maidan square in Kyiv on February 20, 2014.

The shooting of up to 50 protestors by police triggered the flight from Kyiv of
pro-Russian former president Viktor Yanukovych on February 22, and the ascent to
power in Kyiv of a pro-Western administration.

Police moves against Svoboda, one of the pillars of the opposition protest camp
in the heart of Kyiv in the winter of 2013-2014, in connection with the Maidan
shootings, where an estimated one third of those who died were Svoboda members,
are a surprise twist.

They are seen as part of a crackdown on nationalist parties by the
administration of President Petro Poroshenko, following the deaths of four
policemen protecting Ukraine's parliament against violent nationalist protestors
on August 28.

The court warrant for the raid on the apartment of Oleh Pankevich, a former MP
and the ex-head of Lviv regional council, explicitly referred to a BBC
documentary on the subject, according to a copy of the warrant posted online by
Svoboda spokesperson Oleksandr Aronets.

In the documentary, journalist Gabriel Gatehouse spoke to an opposition
nationalist rifleman who had acknowledged having fired on riot police in the
morning of February 20. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ib7EkJD08e4

"They were searching for arms and explosives. Svoboda members are suspected in
the murder of the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundred [protestors killed on Maidan]!"

 Aronets posted.

The court warrant as posted online by Aronets also referrs to video footage that
showed a rifleman firing out of the Hotel Ukraina, situated on Maidan. The room
from which he fired was occupied at the time by Pankevich, according to the
court warrant.

Police also raided the apartment of another leading Svoboda member Oleksandr
Sich, vice-prime minister in the immediate post-Maidan government in 2014, also
in connection with shots fired from the same hotel, where Sich was also staying
on February 20.

An assistant to Ukraine's prosecutor general, Vladislav Kutsenko, confirmed to
the Ukrainian TV channel 112 that searches of the Svoboda leaders' apartments
were linked to an investigation of the February 20 events. Kutsenko said that
Sich and Pankevich were not suspects in the case.

One and a half years later, there have still been no successful prosecutions for
the    massacre, despite a large volume of video footage and eyewitness
accounts.

Crackdown on nationalists

The moves against Svoboda further illustrate that the alliance between Ukrainian
nationalists and liberals that drove the opposition protests on Maidan has
broken down. The breakdown in relations comes after President Poroshenko
conceded to Russian and EU demands that territories in East Ukraine's Donbas
region held by Russian-backed rebels be awarded a special autonomous status in
the constitution.

During violent nationalist protests against the passing of a corresponding law
for the rebel-held territories on August 28, four police officers died when a
grenade was thrown outside parliament. Police detained a Svoboda member almost
immediately for having thrown the grenade, classifying the deed as an act of
terrorism.

Authorities then questioned Svoboda leaders about the attack, including founder
and former MP Oleh Tiahnibok, former agriculture minister Ihor Schvaika, and
another former MP Yury Sirotuk, as part of a pre-trial investigation into the
attack, without naming them as suspects.

All three were at the forefront of nationalist clashes with police outside
parliament on August 28. Tiahnibok was one of the three political leaders of the
Maidan, alongside current prime minister Arseny Yatsenyuk and current mayor of
Kyiv Vitaly Klichko.

The move to now investigate Svoboda in connection with the Maidan massacre is
yet another sign of a crackdown by the Poroshenko administration on
nationalists, following August grenade attack.

On September 17, a large special forces detachment came to the session chamber
of parliament to arrest nationalist MP Ihor Mosiychuk, a larger-than-life member
of the nationalist-populist Radical Party with alleged neo-Nazi links, according
to Anton Shekhovtsov, a researcher of Ukraine's far right.

Mosiychuk had launched stinging verbal attacks against Poroshenko over the
alleged 'surrender' of Donbas to the Russian-backed separatists.

The arrest occurred immediately after MPs voted to lift Mosiychuk's
parliamentary immunity at request of prosecutor general Viktor Shokin, who came
to the house in person to screen a video taken by hidden camera of Mosiychuk
accepting a bribe.

MP Ihor Lutsenko, one of the leaders of civil society on the Maidan, has also
launched a series of blistering personal attacks on Poroshenko. He accuses the
interior ministry of framing two of his friends, Svoboda members Denis Polischuk
and Andrei Medvedko, for the murder of journalist Oles Buzin in Kyiv on April
16.

Buzin, who was shot by masked men outside his apartment, was chief editor of
Segodny newspaper, owned by East Ukrainian oligarch Rinat Akhmetov, which took
an anti-nationalist conciliatory line over the conflict with Kremlin-backed
separatists in Donbas.

On October 8, Lutsenko released drone footage of Poroshenko's Versailles-style
estate and palatial mansion near Kyiv, which revealed that the president's
waterside grounds contain an entire Russian Orthodox chapel. According to
Lutsenko, Poroshenko acquired the territory for one hundredth of its true value.
"The film is dedicated to Denis [Polischuk] and Andrei [Medvedko]," Lutsenko
wrote on Facebook.

Maidan massacre unsolved

On the first anniversary of the Maidan massacre of February 2014, both the BBC
and Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ) interviewed opposition
nationalist riflemen, who acknowledged having fired on policemen on the morning
of February 20, as the police used water cannons to clear protestors in scenes
described by bne IntelliNews.

Four policemen died of their wounds, prompting police to rapidly pull out of the
Maidan back up a nearby hill. When a crowd of protestors rushed after the
retreating police, police marksmen opened fire, killing 48 people.

Nationalist Oleksandr Parasyuk, who commanded around 50 men, some armed with
rifles, position in the Tchaikovksy conservatory looking directly on to the
Maidan, told Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that his men had fired on police
"just once" as the protestors stormed forward and police opened covering fire.

After that, the blood bath commenced. "The [government-side] perpetrators, who
ever they were, after an initial exchange of fire which was possibly indeed
self-defence, exceeded anything that could be regarded in this situation as
proportional. Self-defence became cold random killing," the FAZ wrote.

Parasyuk stepped out of the background onto the Maidan stage the next day, on
February 21, to denounce a peace deal reached between the political opposition
earlier that day. He warned the embatteled Ukrainian president Yanukovych that
if he did not resign by the morning, his men would storm Yanukovych's house near
Kyiv "by force of arms". This apparently prompting Yanukovych's hurried
departure the same night from Kyiv, and ultimately his flight to Russia.
Parasyuk was elected to parliament as MP in October 2014.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             931 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                            October 20, 2015 Tuesday

Ukraine investigates nationalists over Maidan shootings

LENGTH: 1252  words


Ukrainian prosecutors have raided the homes of top leaders of the nationalist
Svoboda party as part of an investigation into the massacre of anti-government
protestors on the Maidan square in Kyiv on February 20, 2014.

The shooting of up to 50 protestors on that day by police triggered the flight
from Kyiv of pro-Russian former president Viktor Yanukovych on February 22, and
the ascent to power of a pro-Western administration.

The police move against Svoboda is on the surface surprising as the party was
one of the pillars of the opposition protest camp in the heart of Kyiv in the
winter of 2013-2014, and an estimated one third of those who died in the Maidan
shootings were Svoboda members.

The raids are seen as part of a crackdown on nationalist parties by the
administration of President Petro Poroshenko, following the deaths of four
policemen protecting Ukraine's parliament against violent nationalist protestors
on August 31.

"The government now wants to crush Svoboda, the searches of the apartments of
[Oleksandr] Sich and [Oleh] Pankevich are entirely politically motivated,"
Svoboda spokesperson Oleksandr Aronets told bne IntelliNews.

The court warrant for the raid on the apartment of Pankevich, a former MP and
the ex-head of Lviv regional council, explicitly referred to a BBC documentary
on the subject, according to a copy of the warrant posted online by Aronets.

In the documentary, journalist Gabriel Gatehouse spoke to an opposition
nationalist rifleman who had acknowledged having fired on riot police in the
morning of February 20.

"They were searching for arms and explosives. Svoboda members are suspected in
the murder of the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundred [protestors killed on Maidan]!"

 Aronets posted.

The court warrant as posted online by Aronets also referrs to video footage that
showed a rifleman firing out of the Hotel Ukraina, situated on Maidan. The room
from which he fired was occupied at the time by Pankevich, according to the
court warrant.

Police also raided the apartment of Sich, vice-prime minister in the immediate
post-Maidan government in 2014, also in connection with shots fired from the
same hotel, where he was also staying on February 20.

An assistant to Ukraine's prosecutor general, Vladislav Kutsenko, confirmed to
the Ukrainian TV channel 112 that searches of the Svoboda leaders' apartments
were linked to an investigation of the February 20 events. Kutsenko said that
Sich and Pankevich were not suspects in the case.

One and a half years later, there have still been no successful prosecutions for
the massacre, despite a large volume of video footage and eyewitness accounts.

Crackdown on nationalists

The moves against Svoboda further illustrate that the alliance between Ukrainian
nationalists and liberals that drove the opposition protests on Maidan has
broken down. The breakdown in relations comes after President Poroshenko
conceded to Russian and EU demands that territories in East Ukraine's Donbas
region held by Russian-backed rebels should be awarded a special autonomous
status in the constitution.

During violent nationalist protests against the passing of a corresponding law
for the rebel-held territories on August 31, four police officers died when a
grenade was thrown outside parliament. Police detained a Svoboda member almost
immediately for having thrown the grenade, classifying the deed as an act of
terrorism.

Authorities then questioned Svoboda leaders about the attack, including founder
and former MP Oleh Tiahnibok, former agriculture minister Ihor Schvaika, and
another former MP Yury Sirotuk, as part of a pre-trial investigation into the
attack, without naming them as suspects.

All three were at the forefront of nationalist clashes with police outside
parliament on August 31. Tiahnibok was one of the three political leaders of the
Maidan, alongside current prime minister Arseny Yatsenyuk and current mayor of
Kyiv Vitaly Klichko.

The move to now investigate Svoboda in connection with the Maidan massacre is
yet another sign of a crackdown by the Poroshenko administration on
nationalists, following August's grenade attack.

On September 17, a large special forces detachment came to the session chamber
of parliament to arrest nationalist MP Ihor Mosiychuk, a larger-than-life member
of the nationalist-populist Radical Party with alleged neo-Nazi links, according
to Anton Shekhovtsov, a researcher of Ukraine's far right.

Mosiychuk had launched stinging verbal attacks against Poroshenko over the
alleged 'surrender' of Donbas to the Russian-backed separatists.

The arrest occurred immediately after MPs voted to lift Mosiychuk's
parliamentary immunity at request of prosecutor general Viktor Shokin, who came
to the house in person to screen a video taken by hidden camera of Mosiychuk
allegedly accepting a bribe.

MP Ihor Lutsenko, one of the leaders of civil society on the Maidan, has also
launched a series of blistering personal attacks on Poroshenko. He accuses the
interior ministry of framing two of his friends, Svoboda members Denis Polischuk
and Andrei Medvedko, for the murder of journalist Oles Buzin in Kyiv on April
16.

Buzin, who was shot by masked men outside his apartment, was chief editor of
Segodny newspaper, owned by East Ukrainian oligarch Rinat Akhmetov, which took
an anti-nationalist conciliatory line over the conflict with Kremlin-backed
separatists in Donbas.

On October 8, Lutsenko released drone footage of Poroshenko's Versailles-style
estate and palatial mansion near Kyiv, which revealed that the president's
waterside grounds contain an entire Russian Orthodox chapel. According to
Lutsenko, Poroshenko acquired the territory for one hundredth of its true value.
"The film is dedicated to Denis [Polischuk] and Andrei [Medvedko]," Lutsenko
wrote on Facebook.

Maidan massacre unsolved

On the first anniversary of the Maidan massacre of February 2014, both the BBC
and Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ) interviewed opposition
nationalist riflemen, who acknowledged having fired on policemen on the morning
of February 20, as the police used water cannons to clear protestors in scenes
described by bne IntelliNews.

Four policemen reportedly died of their wounds, prompting police to rapidly pull
out of the Maidan back up a nearby hill. When a crowd of protestors rushed after
the retreating police, police marksmen opened fire, killing 48 people.

Nationalist Oleksandr Parasyuk, who commanded around 50 men, some armed with
rifles, positioned in the Tchaikovksy conservatory looking directly on to the
Maidan, told Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that his men had fired on police
"just once" as the protestors stormed forward and police opened covering fire.

After that, the blood bath commenced. "The [government-side] perpetrators, who
ever they were, after an initial exchange of fire which was possibly indeed
self-defence, exceeded anything that could be regarded in this situation as
proportional. Self-defence became cold random killing," the FAZ wrote.

Parasyuk stepped out of the background onto the Maidan stage the next day, on
February 21, to denounce a peace deal reached between the political opposition
earlier that day. He warned the embattled Ukrainian president Yanukovych that if
he did not resign by the morning, his men would storm Yanukovych's house near
Kyiv "by force of arms". This apparently prompted Yanukovych's hurried departure
the same night from Kyiv, and ultimately his flight to Russia. Parasyuk was
elected to parliament as MP in October 2014.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             932 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                           October 28, 2015 Wednesday

Melnikoff's `Metamorphosis'

LENGTH: 1251  words


Franz Kafka's most famous short story, "Metamorphosis", begins with the main
character, Gregor Samsa, waking up one morning to discover he has been
inexplicably transformed into a giant beetle. It causes a good deal of nuisance,
but makes surprisingly little difference to his basic standing in society.

That's rather how your correspondent felt on October 10 when he awoke to
discover that - according to one wacky Ukrainian website - he had been
transformed overnight into Modest Kolyerov, former Regnum news agency boss and
master of the dark arts of Putinist information warfare. Admittedly, there is a
passing resemblance - we are both bald with beards - though I like to flatter
myself I am not quite such a dead ringer for Trotsky as my doppelganger.

According to this eccentric piece of news, Kolyerov has in fact been slumming it
as a hack writer in the Baltic states for the last decade and is a dangerous spy
about whom something should be done.

Putting aside for a moment the probability that if Russia's security services
can carry out assassinations with rare radioactive isotopes, they are probably
capable of coming up with names for their agents that aren't quite so similar to
their real names, plus the fact that Kolyerov is actually banned from visiting
the Baltic states, attention turns to why this backhanded compliment was paid.

Entirely coincidentally, two days previously I wrote an article for Latvia's
public broadcaster, LSM, about another man with identity issues. His name is
variously given as Sergey Melnikoff, Sergei Melnikov and his preferred moniker,
'MFF' (presumably pronounced "Mfffff").

What is not in question is that Mr MFF is a photographer. According to himself,
he is a world-famous photographer; according to others, a photographer of
somewhat lower rank. He runs a variety of colourful websites showcasing his
abilities and others outlining a strongly anti-Russian slant. For once, the
world 'Russophobe' seems justified (despite the fact that he is Russian-born
himself and now a US citizen), as he also has pet theories about the
physiological degeneracy of the entire Russian nation.

In an article on one of his websites (which later repeated the allegation that
your correspondent is a master spy), he advocates the deportation of 300,000
Russians from the Baltic states in cattle trucks and various other extreme
views. Police are investigating.

Melnikoff is the creator of an exhibition titled 'The People of Maidan' that
opened in early October in central Riga, which purports to show his photographs
of the Ukrainian uprising centred on Kyiv's main square that ousted the corrupt
former president Viktor Yanukovych in 2014, along with lots of biographical
information about MFF and his tenuous connections to the rich and famous.

Within minutes of the first couple of boards being erected outside the main
Latvian government building, the Cabinet of Ministers, it was attacked by two
young men apparently incensed by what they took to be a Pravy Sektor flag flying
proudly in the breeze. They took the surprising measure of filming themselves
carrying out attack and immediately uploaded it to social media.

Following a police appeal for witnesses, two men were arrested on suspicion of
vandalism, though they have yet to be tried. A few days later, the exhibition
was attacked again at 2:00am. The extent of the damage is unclear. In some
reports, MFF says it was completely destroyed, in others that he has a reserve
exhibition ready to be erected at a moment's notice. Curiously, the security
that the organizers of the exhibition had promised to provide to both police and
Riga City Council failed to materialize for two nights in a row. Because of
that, the council revoked the licence for the exhibition - sparking accusations
that Riga Mayor Nils Usakovs was censoring 'The People of Maidan' - and it is
now seeking a new home while Melnikoff demands compensation of (EURO)150,000 to
avoid litigation. That is colloquially known as a shakedown.

But in among the furore about vandalism, the main findings of the LSM
investigation appear to have been overlooked, and it is these that appear to
have irked MFF and his allies.

Soul mining

Chiefly these relate to an organization called the Soul of Ukraine Foundation, a
US-registered entity founded by MFF and chaired by his daughter. Its mission is
to spread the word about Maidan far and wide by means of MFF's own exhibition,
while collecting charitable donations that can be spent on such items as three
cars, a truck and (EURO)50,000 for the Foundation's board members.

The Soul of Ukraine Foundation is represented in the Baltic states by one Sergey
Alekseev, who also heads a "patriotic" Latvian business entity called the
Latvian Renaissance Foundation (LRA). It is the LRA that is the actual organizer
of MFF's exhibition and that in turn is linked to the 'MayDay news agency' run
by Russian Mikhail Alekseev, which seems to exist not so much to disseminate
news but to channel Russian money through none other than the LRA as part of a
tax-reduction scheme.

As the LSM investigation shows, the links between MFF and the two Alekseevs are
strong - a fact made evident on October 15 when Collier/Kolyerov received a
phone call from Mikhail and then an email signed by Sergey within minutes,
asking him to confirm he was a Russian spy as reported on MFF's noxious news
site. Tellingly, Sergey signed himself 'editor in chief'.

One final fact uncovered by the LSM investigation is perhaps the most important
of all. The pictures MFF claims he took standing on the barricades "from day
one" of the Maidan protests in Kyiv are not all his. Distinguished Ukrainian
photojournalist and Pulitzer finalist Efrem Lukatsky confirmed October 14 that a
spectacular shot of riot police in flames - used by MFF to sell his forthcoming
book of Maidan pics at $1,000 a pop - is in fact his. Other images emblazoned
with Melnikoff's name have been identified as the work of Evgeny Feldman of AP
and even as coming from online photo library Shutterstock.

The attempt to undermine the credibility of your correspondent is perhaps one
last desperate attempt for MFF and friends to keep their unravelling circus on
the road. Once you start digging into the weird and colourful world of MFF, all
sorts of bizarre facts emerge.

It may also be worth noting that despite his anti-Putin views, in his own promo
video, Melnikoff shows himself hanging out with the Russian president in what
may be a sun-drenched mountain top or possibly just a crude photomontage.

What's really surprising is that no one at the Latvian Foreign Ministry thought
it was worth checking out the bona fides of MFF - the world famous photographer
no one has ever heard of.

However, in amongst all the dirt, one piece of information did emerge to lend
weight to MFF's claims for photographic credibility. In 2009 he did indeed win
an award, at a festival in northern Spain for a picture of a mountain. The
regional newspaper, La Nueva Espana ran a gushing story that reads suspiciously
like a press release about how the "famous millionaire American adventurer"
would soon land to collect it "in his private jet".

A few days later it ran another, rather more downbeat story, about how Melnikoff
had failed to show up to collect his award. However, that didn't stop MFF faking
the front cover of La Nueva Espana at the end of his promo video to make it
appear he was given the front page splash - dressed as a cosmonaut!

You couldn't make it up. Or maybe you could.


LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             935 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                November 4, 2015

Pro-Kurdish HDP calls government to resume peace process in parliament

LENGTH: 601  words


Pro-Kurdish party HDP called on November 3 in a written statement new government
to resume peace process in the parliament while Turkish army's air strikes on
PKK targets and curfews in the city of Diyarbakir go on.

Signs for the possible changes in ruling AKP government's post-election policies
are closely followed by the market participants and economic players. Domestic
political tension was high in the pre-election period around the conflict
between Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Gulen Movement, Kurdish
problem and Syria.

One of the most important post-election questions is the fate of the peace talks
with Kurdish guerrillas. Turkish Armed Forces announced on November 3 that air
operations against PKK targets in Turkish city of Hakkari and in the Northern
Iraq continued on November 2. Death toll increased to three in clashes between
security forces and PKK's youth arm YPG was killed by security forces under
curfews declared in three districts of Diyarbakir.

The other question everybody is asking is whether Erdogan is feeling strong
enough to push for an all-powerful presidential system. Deputy Prime Minister
Yalcin Akdogan said in a TV interview on November 3 that Turkey's ruling AKP
sees presidency system crucial for Turkey and it is one of the irrevocable
issues for AKP. Markets reaction were negative to Akdogan's comments regarding
the presidency system. Bourse Istanbul-100 index turned negative following
Akdogan's comments. Turkish Lira lost value and benchmark bond yields rose after
the positive reaction on November 2.

AKP, which won 317 seats in 550-seat parliament in November 1 snap elections,
still falls short of 330 seats required to put a constitutional change into
referendum although it recovered its single-party rule. Any of all three
opposition parties does not seem to provide support for AKP's presidency system
demand, however, AKP's insistency in presidency system carries to deadlock new
constitution process again. Presidency system was one of the main conflicts
between AKP and opposition parties in the previous new constitution talks held
after June 2011 elections.

A key indicator that will determine the outlook for social polarization inside
Turkey will be whether President Erdogan will renew his bid to establish a
"super-presidency", Ege Seckin, analyst at IHS Country Risk, commented on
November 2 in an e-mailed statement with the title of "Rising business risks in
Turkey following election", adding that a fresh bid for the constitutional
changes necessary for this move would be likely to give rise to civil unrest
across the country, with a scope and intensity similar to the Gezi Park protests
in the summer of 2013.

The AKP made lots of promises during its election campaign: ending the PKK
violence, raising the minimum wage, and a better economy. Media reports
suggested that the AKP plans to form the new government within this month and
prepared a 100-day plan to fulfill its promises with a total cost of TRY22.3bn.

Turkish police detained on November 3 at least 44 people, including former Izmir
police chief, former deputy chiefs and former deputy governors, in an
anti-terror operation launched against members of alleged Fetullahist Terrorist
Organization, as a sign that Turkish government will continue its battle with
Gulen movement.

On November 2, only a day after the election, police raided offices of Nokta, a
weekly news magazine, and arrested two of its editors over a cover saying that
the election results would cause a civil war in Turkey. Prosecutors also banned
distribution of the magazine's latest edition.


LOAD-DATE: November 06, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             938 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                January 5, 2016

Kurdish party HDP plans mass rallies as clashes continue in Turkey's southeast

LENGTH: 282  words


The main Kurdish party HDP plans to hold mass rallies this month in support of
the party leaders' call for self-governance in the predominantly Kurdish
southeast.

The police disperse almost all demonstrations in the Kurdish provinces with tear
gas and water cannon. Mass rallies planned by the HDP will mean more clashes and
civil unrest in the country's restive southeast.

Violence between the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and security forces flared
in July when a two-year ceasefire collapsed in July. Since then, hundreds of
security personnel, PKK militants and civilians have been killed in the clashes.
On January 4, two soldiers, two civilians and a police officer were killed in
the cities of Diyarbakir and Silopi, Reuters reported.

The HDP also plans to hold workshops and town-hall meetings on autonomy" and
self-rule, particularly focusing on Turkey's western provinces, HDP spokesperson
Ayhan Bilgen said.

Prosecutors last week launched investigations into HDP Co-chairs Selahattin
Demirtas and Figen Yuksekdag over their remarks in support of self-governance.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan supported the criminal investigation. The
statements by the HDP co-chairs are unconstitutional and they must pay the
price, Erdogan said. Calls for self-governance are clear provocation, according
to Erdogan. As member of parliaments, Demirtas and Yuksekdag enjoy parliamentary
immunity.

Deputy PM and government spokesman Numan Kurtulmus signalled on January 4 that
the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) would not move to lift the HDP
leaders' immunity. The AKP is against party closures and lifting deputies'
immunities, said Kurtulmus, who called on the HDP to act more responsibly.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             940 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Ukraine Today

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday

MOSCOW BLOG: Ukraine makes a Shokin mess of its government shake-up

LENGTH: 817  words


Europe is pulling its hair out over the lack of reform in Ukraine and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) is threatening to cut off its funding, which
would cause the economy to collapse. Yet despite all the external pressure,
President Petro Poroshenko botched a government shake-up on February 16 that was
supposed to bring the country back onto its westward-bound track.

Two heads were on the block at the Verkhovna Rada parliament's session that day:
those of Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk and General Prosecutor Viktor Shokin.

With fragile state institutions losing despairing reformers almost on a weekly
basis, Poroshenko attempted to reset the government by first pressuring Shokin
to resign and then leaving Yatsenyuk in place by the skin of his teeth on
condition that he gut and reform his cabinet.

Yatsenyuk survived a vote of no confidence in parliament as the PM continues to
have his own power base in the Rada, but Shokin was finally forced to go.

Shokin has failed to bring to court a single important case in the last year in
a country that the last Transparency International ranking considers to be the
most corrupt in Europe. A close personal ally of the president, the prosecutor
has been blamed for the almost total absence of anti-corruption action and in
effect supporting the continuation of the oligopoly that has marred the country
for the last 20 years.

Ukraine's friends have become increasingly explicit about the need to tackle the
issue, to the point where they are threatening to abandon Ukraine if something
doesn't change. Right up to the February 16 events, Poroshenko had been
resisting increasingly loud calls from both within and without to sack Shokin as
a first genuine step.

Things were so bad that US Vice President Joe Biden felt obliged to read the
Rada deputies the riot act in a speech on the floor of the Rada at the end of
last year. "You know what to do, so do it!" Biden said, referring to the
long-promised crackdown on corruption. This year the IMF has threatened to cut
off its support programme until there is "significant progress" on the reform
front. Without meaningful reform, Ukraine's European dream will keep on dying.

Poroshenko's decision to sack Shokin is pivotal. Replacing him is both essential
if Ukraine's reform effort is going to go anywhere, and enormously symbolic.

And the sacking was fluffed. Officially Poroshenko asked him to resign.
Officially Shokin resigned. But Ukrainska Pravda reports that Shokin checked in
with doctors and reported himself sick the day before, on February 15. As a
legacy of the Soviet Union's labour laws you cannot be arrested or sacked if you
are sick. It is a widely used dodge used by politicians and oligarchs when the
heat becomes too hot: check yourself into hospital and wait for the fuss to blow
over.

Now confusion reigns. No one is clear what Skokin's status is or what will
happen next. Will he come back after he "gets better" or will the resignation
stick and someone else will be appointed? The sidestep led to a torrent of rage
on social media.

"@poroshenko, that is really scandalous: #Shokin hasn't resign & can't resign
because he is on a sick leave why they think we are such idiots?" bne
IntelliNews columnist and award-winning political activist Kateryna Kruk seethed
on Twitter, starting a thread that was full of scorn and disappointment. What
was supposed to be a day of decisive action ended in farce.

What is not clear is how sincere Poroshenko's actions were. Was his call for
both Yatsenyuk and Shokin to quit a genuine attempt to make a fresh start, or
was this all political theatre designed to keep the IMF cash spigot open without
having to upset the status quo?

It is impossible to say, but given the rising impatience amongst Ukraine's
erstwhile supporters, the failure to produce a decisive result from the Rada
session will only erode the dwindling confidence in Ukraine's ability to cope
with the massive challenges it faces. If Poroshenko wants to prove his good
intentions then he should appoint a new general prosecutor with pristine
anti-graft credentials as soon as possible. Anything less, or leaving the Shokin
question up in the air, could be the final straw that breaks the camel's back.

Ukraine is close to a coalition breakdown that could lead to snap parliamentary
elections. However, Poroshenko underlined in his statement that parliament's
dissolution "is not the president's obligation, but only his right".

Meanwhile, lost in the drama of no confidence votes and did-he-didn't-he resign
hubbub was the detail of the government's progress report. Commentators have
pointed out that the government has managed to achieve none of its major goals.
And the few feathers it does have in its cap, such as the e-procurement system
for state orders, were put in place by reform-minded ministers who have since
quit the government in disgust at the lack of change.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             946 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                 June 20, 2016

Erdogan revives controversial Gezi Park development plans

LENGTH: 401  words


Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has vowed to revive controversial plans
to redevelop Istanbul's Gezi Park that triggered mass anti-government protests
back in 2013. Several people were killed, hundreds of people injured during the
protests that posed the biggest challenge to the government of the
Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party (AKP) since coming to power in
2002.

The plans envisage rebuilding of the Ottoman-era military barracks and
construction of a mosque. "If we want to preserve our history we must rebuild
this historic structure, we will rebuild it," Erdogan said on June 18.

Erdogan revisits the controversial plan at a time when he is aware that
parliamentary and non-parliamentary opposition is weak and fragmented and a
repeat of the Gezi protests is unlikely. The mood among anti-government people
is hopelessness and deep sense of defeat since the November election, in which
the AKP regained the parliamentary majority it lost in June's snap polls.

Erdogan seems to be doing what is doing the best: he is consolidating his
supporter base by polarising the country. He is aware that his statements on
Gezi Park may agitate and provoke his opponents and may drive them back to the
streets. Probably Erdogan wants to test the power of his opponents as he pushes
for gaining absolute power. If his opponents take to the streets once again,
probably there will be fewer protesting people compared to 2013 and he will
easily crush them, sending the morale of his opponents to sub-zero level.

Showing the weakness of non-parliamentary opposition which constituted the
backbone of the 2013 protests, only several hundreds of people gathered on June
18 in Istanbul's Cihangir district to protest an attack on a record shop the
previous night where the fans of British rock band Radiohead were celebrating
the launch of the band's last album.

Around 20 people armed with sticks stormed the shop, owned by a Korean citizen,
on June 17, attacked the fans because they said there were reacting to the
consumption of alcohol at the event during the holy month of Ramadan. Police
used tear gas and water cannon, a regular practice by security forces since the
Gezi events in 2013, to disperse the crowd on June 18.

Commenting on the Cihangir incident, Erdogan said both the organisers of the
event and the attackers were wrong. The alleged attackers were briefly detained
and later released.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             948 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Turkey This Week

                                 June 24, 2016

MOSCOW BLOG: Brexit in the age of fragmentation

LENGTH: 2020  words


"International relations are fragile and delicate and we are entering an age of
fragmentation,"  European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker told Russia's
assembled business elite in his speech at the recent St Petersburg International
Economic Forum (Spief), which he attended in an effort to patch up relations
between Russia and the EU.

Those words are prophetic, as Europe is clearly a lot more delicate than Juncker
had assumed, following Britain's decision to leave the EU entirely, or Brexit, a
little over a week later. Juncker is right in that not just Europe but the
entire world is splintering and countries around the globe are turning inwards.

The Commission head was not very optimistic that his widely criticised trip to
Moscow would bear fruit, admitting that it was going to be a "very hard
conversation". No news came out of his meeting with Russian President Vladimir
Putin later the same day, and obviously the two men found little, if any, common
ground. Europe now remains fundamentally divided along its eastern border, and
with mounting military spending and massive military exercises, the prospect of
a new Cold War look more real than ever.

Russia's geopolitical showdown with the West and the UK's decision to leave
Europe are all manifestations of same centrifugal forces that are remorseless
pulling Europe apart.

One of the most powerful is that the old world order, dominated by the US, is
struggling to adjust to the rise of emerging markets that joined the global
capitalist community two decades ago, but are now starting to flex their
economic, and in Russia's case military, muscles. The core of Putin's foreign
policy is to shift from a unipolar world dominated by a single superpower to a
multipolar world where all the major economies choreograph their interests - an
aspiration shared by the other BRICS nations.

Another powerful force is the tsunami of migration that the fall of the Iron
Curtain has unleashed. This has been most obvious in the millions of families
fleeing the fighting in the Middle East, but Europe has also quietly seen floods
of migrants from the Emerging Europe countries who are moving to seek a better
life. In addition to more than a million Syrian refugees that Germany has
recently sheltered, it had already given passports to 8mn Russians of German
descent, as well as large numbers of migrants from across the former communist
Eastern Europe.

But the most divisive force driving the fragmentation is widening income
inequalities that have been made worse by the global fincnial crisis.

Continental wide protests

Within many countries - both in the East and West - income inequality is tearing
at the fabric of society. In the US, most of the wealth created in recent years
has accrued to the top 1%, leading to public protests the like Zuccotti Park
"Occupy Wall Street" protests in September 2011. The poorest segment of the US
population is becoming increasingly frustrated with unaccountability of the Wall
Street/Washington elite and violence against Afro Americans in the "Black lives
matter" campaign. Some 50mn Americans are now estimated to be "working poor".

Europe has been riven by similar protests ever since austerity was imposed
following the 2008 crisis. Spain and Greece have seen sizeable riots and France
was home to street fighting again this month as youths rioted in protest at
harsh new labour laws.

The Brexit shock in the UK, where much of the establishment came out in support
of "Remain" was due to a protest by Britain's working class, tired of "fat cat
Eurocrats" and the Westminster elite telling them what to do. It is hard to see
Europe's effect on the streets of South Shields or Bradford, and so the "Leave"
vote was as much a protest against the system as it was in support of a specific
policy goal.

"What is happening today is shameful crisis of leadership all across Europe in
dark times when we need outstanding leaders the most," Max Eristavi tweeted on
the morning after the Brexit vote. Eristavi is a leading opposition journalist
in Ukraine, a country that is relying on the EU's help more than most.

But very similar forces are at work in Europe's east, although the problems are
worse and the government's response a lot more heavy-handed.

Armenia was riven by the "electricYerevan" protests earlier this year after the
government tried to impose large power tariff increases on the people to pay for
debts arising from incompetent management of the utilities. Serbian authorities
were under siege by protestors in June over a waterfront development that
favoured the well-connected. And similar protests have been seen in Kosovo and
Macedonia, leading some to ask whether a "Balkan Spring" is in the making.

Turkey too has seen mass protests that started over Istanbul's Gezi Park, again
over a proposed real estate development that ran roughshod over public interest,
and periodic anti-government protests since, one of which last autumn ended up
as the target of terrorist bombs. In addition to the political arrogance of the
ruling elite, Turkey is also dealing with Islamic extremism cross the border and
a long-running ethnic dispute with the Kurds that has led to virtual civil war
in the south-east of the country.

Even in Central Asia, in the normally quietly suppressed republic of Kazakhstan,
protesters burst onto the streets in May with the so-called land protests (again
sparked the sale of land and development plans) that saw hundreds arrested only
to be followed by a terror attack in the town of Aktobe a few weeks later.

Of course, the granddaddy of the protests in Eastern Europe was the Euromaidan
protests of 2013-2014 in Ukraine. This began as a popular protest against then
president Viktor Yanukovych's decision to snub the EU's free trade and
association deal, and put his eggs in the Russian basket instead, but quickly
morphed into a general protest against the kleptocratic regime that was (and
still is) run by and for the benefit for oligarchs. Ukrainian President Petro
Poroshenko is now sailing close to the wind after he has failed to deliver on
any of his reform promises and the oligarchs continue to run the country.

Ironically Russia, which suffers from the same wealth inequalities and aloof
elite problems, has largely escaped from popular protests, other than briefly in
2011 following a rigged Duma election. That is partly due to Putin's
increasingly tight grip on power, exemplified by the recent setting up a
National Guard security force that answers only to the president. But it is also
because the trickle-down of hundreds of billions of petrodollars has lifted the
average income of the average Russian way above their emerging market peers.
Putin has also adroitly used the aggressive tactics of the West to contain
Russia to stoke national pride and lift his own popularity to record levels.

Refugees drive lurch to the right

Most of these protests have at their root dissatisfaction caused by the growing
gap between the rich and the poor, which has been exacerbated by the 2008 crisis
and subsequent global economic slowdown. However, they have also been stoked by
the mass movement of people leaving economic basket cases or fleeing warzones in
the search for a better life, which is fuelling a backlash of right-wing
politics.

The mildest manifestation was the decision of the Dutch to reject ratification
of EU-Ukraine Association Agreement in April in a non-binding referendum that
may still scupper the whole deal for Ukraine. There is clearly expansion fatigue
in Europe and possible Turkish membership was used as a weapon in the "Leave"
campaign in the UK.

The millions of desperate Syrian families piling up on the EU's borders have
forced countries to ask themselves what they want to be, to which popularist
politicians answer: "the same as we always were". For most that means white,
Christian and richer than everyone else.

The Syrian refugees crisis has brought the issue to a head and forced European
leaders to cut a deal with Turkey so unsavoury that Nobel prize winning Doctors
Without Borders (MSF) has refused to cooperate with it. German Chancellor Angela
Merkel has got herself into hot water at home by, uniquely in Europe, throwing
open the gates and allowing a deluge of refugees to enter the country.

Studies show that almost all Europe-bound migrants from the developing world are
headed to Germany (except for the Baltics, where young people almost exclusively
want to go to London.) The fall of the Iron Curtain has added to the
fragmentation process as the populations of the host countries become
increasingly uncomfortably with all these "foreigners" coming to live in their
midst.

The end of globalisation

The Eurozone crisis has caused countries to turn in on themselves for economic
reasons too. Falling incomes, rising unemployment and slowing production have
led countries to tout protectionist policies such as US presidential candidate
Donald Trump's wall with Mexico. As bne IntelliNews wrote in a recent blog "The
end of globalisation", the high-water mark of global economic integration was
probably Russia's accession to the WTO in on August 22, 2012.

Alfa Bank's chief economist Nataliya Orlova said in a recent interview with bne
IntelliNews, that: "Until then, Russia was pursuing a policy of global
intergration and the attraction of foreign investment. But after the events in
Ukraine started it did a rapid about-face and is now shutting out the rest of
the world and striving to become self-sufficient in everything it can."

Economic isolationism is the new fad. One of the arguments for Brexit is the
pound will weaken - and it fell over 8% on the first day of trading after the
vote - which will boost exports and help reduce the UK's large trade deficit.
But as the BBC's Linda Yueh ‏points out the pound fell by some 25% after the
2008 crisis with little impact on the trade deficit.

The Greek and Cyprus crises are also centrifugal forces where the big and
prosperous Central European countries would like to jettison the small and
unproductive countries that are increasingly seen as a burden on taxpayers.

A June survey for the Pew Research Center found that only 38% of French still
hold a favourable view of the EU, six points lower than in the UK.
Euroscepticism, the pollster found, is on the rise across Europe and about
two-thirds of both the British and the Greeks, along with significant minorities
in other key nations, want some powers returned from Brussels to national
governments.

Anti-Europe goverments and parties are on the rise in all the Scandinavian
countries, Poland, Hungary, Denmark, the Netherlands, France and even Germany
has spawned the "Alternative for Germany" anti-immigration party.

Clearly, EU enlargement is now over and that will destablise things further.
British Prime Minister David Cameron explicitly said Turkish membership was not
on the cards. Removing the pretence of membership removes the only leverage the
EU had over the increasingly ambitious Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
who is striving to create an executive presidency and install himself as the
supreme leader.

"The fragmentation of the EU has started. Britain was the first to abandon
ship," Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Nurettin Canikli wrote on Twitter following
the UK's vote.

It is also bad news for the rest of Southeast Europe where all the remaining
candidate countries hail from: Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. Others
who want to join the queue include Bosnia & Herzegovina, Kosovo, Moldova and
Ukraine.

The break-up of the EU has come as an especial bitter disappointment for
Ukraine, where over 100 people lost their lives two years ago on Kyiv's central
square as they struggled to attain a new life closer to Europe. The people, if
not the government, have been looking to Brussels for help and encouragement,
but little aid has arrived.

"My reaction to Brexit is similar to the one about Crimea: you observe how the
world you are used to ceases to exist... and you feel lost," Ukrainian political
activist and bne IntelliNews columnist Katya Kruk tweeted on the morning after
the vote.


LOAD-DATE: July 03, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             952 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                               TODAY (Singapore)

                           January 15, 2014 Wednesday
                                  APM Edition

Singapore raps New York Times over editorial on Little India riot

SECTION: HNC; Singapore; Editors Pick; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 294 words


The Government has hit out at The New York Times over an editorial the newspaper
carried on the Little India riot last month, taking issue with its decision to
not publish a letter by Singapore's Ambassador to the United States responding
to the piece.

In a strongly-worded statement issued yesterday, the Ministry of Communications
and Information (MCI) said: "The New York Times, like any other newspaper, is
entitled to express its own opinions.

"But when it suppresses rejoinders that express a contrary view and show that
the Times is mistaken, it gives the lie to its claim to champion freedom of
speech and the truth."

The editorial, published on Dec 28 and reprinted in the international edition on
Dec 30, stated that tensions caused by the frustration of migrant workers over
their wages and living conditions had "boiled over", leading to the riot.

Singapore's Ambassador to the United States Ashok Mirpuri had responded to the
newspaper a few days later to "set out the facts".

"Instead of publishing the letter, the Times prevaricated and raised fresh
objections each time its previous objections were met," the MCI said.

The MCI stated that the newspaper had objected to Mr Mirpuri saying it had been
mistaken in its facts, claiming that it would render the letter a "correction",
which would have to be cleared by a senior editor and would not be publishable
in the letter pages. The newspaper also objected to "setting out the facts" as
to who the rioters were, though it had not objected to this earlier.

"It also refused to allow the Ambassador to so much as suggest that the Times
had been mistaken in its analysis of the causes of the riot," the MCI said.
Contacted about the MCI statement, The New York Times was unable to respond as
of press time.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The riot broke out at 9.20pm and the situation was brought under
control at around midnight. Photo: Ooi Boon Keong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 MediaCorp Press Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                             953 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                  Moscow News

                           January 22, 2014 Wednesday

Euromaidan and use of force

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL

LENGTH: 1322 words


The United States has threatened possible  sanctions against Ukrainian
authorities after new violence erupted Sunday on  Kiev's streets, where
anti-government demonstrators set a police bus on fire and  pelted riot squads
with rocks and Molotov cocktails.

Pro-government lawmakers in Ukraine have  slammed statements from Western
politicians for their supposed double standards.  Given the forceful measures
often used to put down popular riots in Europe and  the United States, is there
a difference how Ukraine's authorities and Western  authorities respond to
unrest?

According to some political experts, the  West's reaction is based on a
simplistic, black-and-white understanding of what  is happening. Also, unlike
protest movements in the West, Euromaidan is posing  a serious threat to
Ukraine's government.

Threat of sanctions

Sunday's rally -  which saw tens of thousands of demonstrators gather on Kiev's
Independence  Square against legislation limiting protests - was one of the most
violent since  the start of demonstrations last November, when Ukraine abandoned
an association  treaty with the European Union. On Sunday, six police cars were
burned and about  70 police officers were injured, according to Ukraine's
Interior Ministry.  Clashes continued the next day.

"From its first days, the Maidan movement  has been defined by a spirit of
non-violence and we support today's call by  opposition political leaders to
re-establish that principle," said a White House  statement issued on Sunday.
"The U.S. will continue to consider additional  steps - including sanctions - in
response to the use of violence."

Sanctions were also suggested by Canada's  immigration minister, Chris
Alexander, who addressed a gathering of  Ukrainian-Canadians in Toronto on
Sunday.

The comments appeared to come in response to  wide calls for sanctions from
Ukrainian opposition leaders like Vitali  Klitschko, head of the Udar party, who
earlier urged the EU to impose sanctions  on Ukrainian authorities.

U.S. National Security Council spokeswoman  Caitlin Hayden called on dialogue
between the Ukrainian government and the  opposition. She categorized Ukraine's
recent legal crackdown on protest as  a "[move] to weaken the foundations of
Ukraine's democracy by criminalizing  peaceful protest and stripping civil
society and political opponents of key  democratic protections under the law."

The European Council voiced concern over the  recent violence, calling on Monday
for broad dialogue to end the political  crisis.

Earlier, the EUcalled on Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych to revise the
laws hurriedly passed by parliament, the  Verkhovna Rada, last Thursday
restricting protest activity and imposing stricter  penalties.

Pepper spray and mass  arrests

As protests  escalated in Kiev, with radical activists trying to take over more
government  buildings, attacking police and setting cars on fire, riot squads
reportedly  responded with pepper spray, rubber bullets and water cannons in
sub-zero  temperatures (Ukrainian police have denied the use of rubber bullets).

While harsh, tactically the methods hardly  appear any worse than those used by
authorities in Western cities when faced  with riots.

Police in Portland, Oregon, used pepper  spray to disperse an Occupy Portland
protest in November 2011. At a similar  protest that month in California, two
police officers doused protesters who were  sitting on the sidewalk with pepper
spray. A student would later complain that  he coughed up blood as a result.

Riot squads responding to protesters in  Oakland, California, were widely
reported by bloggers to have used rubber  bullets and stun grenades, even though
rioters were hardly setting police cars  on fire. In Madrid in November 2012,
riot police fired rubber bullets on  demonstrators protesting against government
austerity measures.

Sunday's demonstration in Kiev initially  emerged as a protest against the
legislation imposing limitations on protests.  The limitations include a ban on
the unauthorized installation of tents,  provisions to arrest protesters wearing
masks or helmets, and fines and longer  jail terms for violations.

When compared to foreign legislation,  however, the measures didn't appear to be
much more restrictive than those in  Western countries.

And while  Ukrainian (and Russian) authorities usually resort to precision
arrests,  rounding up about a dozen people over Sunday's unrest (Russian
authorities  charged 28 people over protest riots in May 2012), authorities in
Britain and  the United States have been known to arrest thousands.

For example, 2,138 people were found guilty  and sentenced over three days of
riots against police brutality in London in  August 2011, according to the
British Ministry of Justice, with 1,405 getting  real prison terms averaging 17
months.

British authorities are also empowered to  restrict rallies, with the Public
Order Act of 1986, for instance, allowing for  marches to be banned outright.
Offenses that include saying things that are  threatening, abusive or insulting
could land a protester in jail for up to six  months, according to a pamphlet
published by the National Union of Students, an  NGO that advocates for civil
liberties. Assaulting a police officer carries  a penalty of up to six months.
Life in prison is possible if the assault caused  grievous bodily harm with
intent.

'Distorted picture'

When Western  governments decry police violence in Ukraine, they do so from a
simplistic  understanding of what the protests are about, according to Fyodor
Lukyanov,  editor of the Russia in Global Affairs journal and chairman of the
Council on  Foreign and Defense Policy. It's not that the West is deliberately
applying  double standards, it's that its understanding of the situation is
distorted.

"When these [police] measures are applied in  the middle of a political crisis,
even if they are completely appropriate and  correct and don't differ from norms
in other countries, their effect is going to  be different," Lukyanov told The
Moscow News.

"What is  happening in Kiev is reviving the agenda from November and December,
the  pressure on Ukraine's government to agree to concessions or even to leave,"
he  added. "The escalation [of Euromaidan] is an excuse to hold Ukraine's
government  responsible. The topic of sanctions is going to be more
widespread."

According to Lukyanov, Western politicians  see the events in Ukraine simply as
an issue of peaceful, pro-European  protesters being confronted by a brutal,
corrupt regime. "There is the same  simplified black and white picture in Syria,
and that picture leads to the  statements we are hearing," he said. "It's not a
double standard per se, it's  that they see a distorted picture."

Apples and oranges?

Some experts  believe, however, that one shouldn't compare Kiev's protests to
Western protests  such as the Occupy movement at all. They say that the
Euromaidan protest and the  police crackdown are taking place in an entirely
different political context  than in the West. That, in part, gives rise to
critical statements coming from  Western leaders.

"In America there are independent courts.  There is a whole social
infrastructure for protesters, and the authorities are  very careful with these
organizations," Alexei Makarkin, deputy director at the  Center for Political
Technologies, told The Moscow News.

Makarkin also pointed out that Congress  could never pass laws restricting
protests as quickly as the Ukrainian Rada.  "Something like that could never
happen [in the United States]," he said.

Another major difference is the nature of  the protest movements themselves.
Euromaidan is widely seen as a real  destabilizing force in Ukraine, whereas
something like the Occupy movement is  not.

"In the West, we haven't seen a protest  movement that actually poses a threat
to the government, and we probably won't  see one any time soon," Lukyanov said.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 RIA Novosti
                              All Rights Reserved


                             954 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             August 28, 2011 Sunday

Gridlock on the road to September

BYLINE: ADAM SHAY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1051 words


The Palestinian Authority is currently soliciting UN recognition of Palestinian
statehood. The main purpose of this move is creating the appearance of a dynamic
and a move toward resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. However, a
broader look at the interests and political realities of the relevant parties
shows that an actual move forward is not in any of the parties' interests at
present.

For Fatah, the formation of a Palestinian state would mean cutting off the
branch on which it sits. The PA was constructed on the framework of the PLO, its
parent organization. Fatah's relation to the PA is an inherently institutional
one, rather than one based on popular support. The constant decline in the
faction's support has seen many low points, including losing the 2006 election
to Hamas; losing the framework of the PA would dislodge Fatah from its West Bank
power base and could be the last nail in its coffin.

This explains the leading principle of Fatah's attitude toward the overall topic
of negotiations - that of Tatbiya (normalization). Under this principle,
dialogue and ventures promoting coexistence are banned, and Palestinians may not
take part in any such activities. Dialogue, therefore, can't be used as a tool
for resolution, and normalization between Israelis and Palestinians will only be
possible after Israel unilaterally withdraws from the territories. Seeing as
Israel seeks to conduct negotiations on precisely this matter, the result is a
classic catch-22.

It could easily be argued that the Tatbiya principle is not aimed at achieving
goals within the context of the conflict, but rather in the context of local
Palestinian politics - prolonging the rule of Fatah.

Being an Islamist religious organization, Hamas supports a global agenda, not a
national one. Hamas does not see the formation of a Palestinian homeland as its
ultimate goal; rather, it aims for the creation of a global caliphate, as stated
in its charter. This goal is also supported by Hamas's sponsor - Iran.

There have been several voices in Israel suggesting that Israel should negotiate
with Hamas. However, the current government, like all those that preceded it,
refuses any such negotiations until Hamas abandons terrorism as a tactic and
abolishes the article in its charter calling for the destruction of the Jewish
state. The Israeli consensus seems to accept this demand, as there have been
very few challenges to it. Unfortunately there is no parallel debate taking
place within Hamas, which has declared time and again that it is not interested
in achieving a resolution of the conflict via a two-state solution, but rather
via the eradication of the State of Israel.

THERE IS currently little agreement among the Israeli public regarding the
feasibility of a resolution. Shifting paradigms have left the public in
disarray. The Oslo Accords, which founded the PA and laid down the foundations
for future negotiations and progress, were based on the "land for peace"
paradigm, which collapsed with the second intifada. Recently governments have
returned to the traditional "defensible borders" paradigm.

The efforts of Palestinian unilateralism, as demonstrated by the attempt to
achieve statehood through the UN rather than by negotiation with Israel, as well
as the Arab Spring, have left the Israeli public in an atmosphere of
uncertainty, which is infertile ground for any peace process, let alone one that
includes territorial concessions. The lack of progress in the negotiations
grants Israel a deferral in any further territorial concessions it might be
required to make if and when a resolution is negotiated.

Preconditions for negotiations are another element blocking progress. The
Palestinian insistence on recognition of the 1949 armistice lines as the basis
for the future border, as well as an immediate cessation of settlement-building,
is met by the Israeli demand for recognition of the Jewish state - a demand the
Palestinians are unable or unwilling to answer, as it contradicts the
Palestinian claim for a "right of return."

Recently Israelis have taken to the streets in unprecedented mass demonstrations
on internal social issues. Some 300,000 people called for a reevaluation of the
national priorities. Housing, education and reduced taxation seem to be the main
topics on the agenda these days, with little to no public interest in
jump-starting Israeli-Palestinian negotiations.

IT IS highly unlikely that the United States will be willing to spend any more
political capital on such negotiations. The administration has lost credit among
Middle Eastern countries due to an inability to bring about a significant change
in overall US-Arab relations, as declared by President Barack Obama in his 2009
speech in Cairo. The continued American presence in Iraq and Afghanistan has
shown no such major shift in US policy.

The Arab Spring also dealt a blow to American foreign policy, as the first Arab
regime with which the Obama administration associated itself - that of Hosni
Mubarak - disintegrated in the Tahrir Square riots. The US reluctance to support
the popular uprisings in Libya and Syria has further damaged America's status as
a global power and as a fighting force for freedom. As the Obama administration
gears up for election year under the shadow of renewed economic crisis and
endless debt debates, it is unlikely it will be willing to invest any more
credit in the Middle Eastern quagmire.

THE CURRENT state of Israeli-Palestinian affairs is thereby defined by a tragic
lack of willingness, ability, interest and incentives. All the principals
involved have come to the conclusion that the current status quo is the optimal
situation. This reality contradicts the Palestinian claim that the peace process
is gridlocked due to Israeli demands, and sheds a new light on this current
unilateral attempt to achieve statehood via the UN.

Undoubtedly a significant change must occur before negotiations - which are the
only path leading to peace - are resumed. However, the UN General Assembly does
not have the ability to bring about this change.

The writer holds a BA in international affairs and an MA in political science,
both from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem. He is a senior program coordinator
and a researcher at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: All sides seem comfortable standing still

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             955 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday

Justice Ministry to probe alleged police beating of Arab-American rioter

BYLINE: YONAH JEREMY BOB and Jerusalem Post staff; Michael Wilner contributed to
this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 261 words


The Justice Ministry announced Saturday night it is opening an investigation
into the alleged beating of a tourist taking part in an east Jerusalem riot on
Thursday. The announcement was made after videos of the beating went viral on
the Internet.

Tariq Khdeir, 15, of Tampa, Florida, was allegedly beaten by policemen before he
was arrested, according to Palestinian media reports.

Khdeir is the Palestinian-American cousin of Muhammad Abu Khdeir, who was
murdered on Wednesday in a suspected revenge attack following the discovery of
the bodies of the three abducted Israeli teens.

A video being circulated by human rights groups allegedly shows two police
officers kicking and beating the high school student. Palestinian media
published photos depicting a boy with a badly bruised face, whom they claim is
Khdeir.

The director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations of Tampa told a local
Florida television station that the video shows security forces "stomping on his
face," and that Khdeir had been detained in Jerusalem following his
participation in a riot.

The US State Department said it was "profoundly troubled by reports that he was
severely beaten while in police custody," and urged a "speedy, transparent and
credible investigation."

Israel Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld was quoted by The New York Times as
saying that the footage was "edited and biased," and that it "did not represent
the scope of events."

Rosenfeld told the Times that Tariq was one of six people who had been arrested
Thursday after clashes in which 15 police officers were wounded.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: MOURNERS CARRY the body of Muhammad Abu Khdeir during his
funeral in the capital's northeastern Shuafat neighborhood on Friday. (Credit:
Ammar Awad/Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             956 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                           August 20, 2014 Wednesday

Cairo, Tehran make use of Missouri news

BYLINE: ARIEL BEN SOLOMON and Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 322 words


Cairo on Tuesday urged US authorities to exercise restraint in dealing with
racially charged demonstrations in Ferguson, Missouri - echoing language
Washington used to caution Egypt as it cracked down on Islamist protesters last
year.

Ties between Washington and Cairo were strained when Egyptian security forces
killed hundreds of Muslim Brotherhood supporters following the army's ousting of
elected president Mohamed Morsi in July 2013.

The Egyptian Foreign Ministry's statement on the unrest in Ferguson read
similarly to one US President Barack Obama's administration issued in July 2013,
when the White House "urged security forces to exercise maximum restraint and
caution" in dealing with demonstrations by Morsi supporters.

The ministry added it was "closely following the escalation of protests" in
Ferguson, unleashed by the fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a
white policeman.

Meanwhile, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei went on a tweet spree seeking
to link the Ferguson protests to Israel. Khamenei re-tweeted on Tuesday a
statement from last year in relation to the US riots.

"US govt is #unreliable& egotistical; due to Zionist domination over it, US
prefers #Israel's interests 2 that of its nation.10/5/13 #Ferguson," it said.

On Monday, he tweeted: "The day when American nation realize their socioeconomic
problems stem from domination of #Israel over their govt, what'll happen?
#Ferguson."

Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Majid Takht-Ravanchi accused the US of racist
behavior and oppression in Ferguson.

"Racism is an ominous phenomenon and it is awkward and unpleasant to be obliged
to still speak about it in the 21st century; yet unfortunately, we are still
witnessing the phenomenon of racism in the Western societies and it is
regrettable that those who claim to be advocates of human rights are pursuing
such an approach," Takht-Ravanchi said in Tehran on Monday, Iran's Fars News
Agency reported.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             957 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                            November 23, 2015 Monday

From our Archives

BYLINE: Alexander Zvielli

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 553 words


65 YEARS AGO

On November 23, 1950, The Jerusalem Post reported from London that Winston
Churchill laid down a motion of censure against the government for refusing to
"suspend the export of arms, including Centurion tanks" to Egypt, while this
country threatened to denounce the 1936 Treaty with Britain. A Labor member,
R.T. Paget, had also reminded members of the House of Commons that Egypt had
threatened Israel and asked what would be the British position if the tanks and
jet planes now sent to Egypt were to be "driven into Israel."

In Tel Aviv, Abba Eban, the Israeli ambassador and permanent delegate to the UN,
had denied current reports about any peace talks with Arab states. He thought
that perhaps certain of his remarks gave an erroneous impression that such talks
took place.

In Washington, the Jordanian minister, Yussef Halkal, said Jordan would consider
no peace settlement with Israel which would impair its sovereignty over the Old
City and certain quarters of Jerusalem.

Several hundreds of Palestinian Arab refugees demonstrated in Amman, in protest
against UNRWA's confiscation of their monthly ration cards.

Israeli drivers were warned that police had started enforcing the new traffic
zoning laws.

The first step was taken in the Knesset to replace the Mandatory Government
Defense Regulations of 1939. The new bill to control patents passed first
reading.

50 YEARS AGO

On November 23, 1965, The Jerusalem Post reported on the festive opening of the
Sixth Knesset. David Ben-Gurion attended to the swearing-in ceremony as the
presiding member.

Prime minister Levi Eshkol tendered the resignation of his cabinet to president
Zalman Shazar, setting the stage for the formal consultations between the
president and the Knesset faction leaders who would be ready to form the new
cabinet.

At the UN, Israel told the UN Security Council that Lebanon had failed to take
adequate security measures to prevent the infiltration of the Israeli territory
by armed saboteurs, connected with the groups responsible for sabotage forays
into Israel from the Jordanian border since January 1965. Israel took action
against Lebanon on October 27, 1965, in consequence of which Lebanon had
complained to the Security Council.

In Amman, Jordan's prime minister, Wafsi e-Tel, resumed talks with Ahmed
Shukeiry of the Palestine Liberation Organization.

The Post's editorial said that it was five years since the outbreak of what was
known as the "Lavon Affair," or who was responsible for sabotage in Egypt in
1954, and more than two years since David Ben-Gurion resigned on this issue and
was followed by Levi Eshkol. This caused the split between the Mapai and Rafi
political parties. Lavon had since remained silent and it was now time, in the
Sixth Knesset, to put the entire affair to rest.

25 YEARS AGO

On November 23, 1990, The Jerusalem Post reported that finance minister Yitzhak
Moda'i aimed to win prime minister Yitzhak Shamir's support for his 1991 state
budget which would include new economic measures.

The UN Security Council started to review UN secretary-general Javier de
Cuellar's report on the October 8, 1990, Temple Mount riot.

US president George Bush arrived in Cairo to meet president Hosni Mubarak of
Egypt. Bush was scheduled to leave Egypt for Geneva where he was expected to
meet President Assad of Syria.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                             958 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 28, 2016 Thursday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Rules and Regulations Commerce Control List: Addition of Items
Determined To No Longer Warrant Control Under United States Munitions List
Category XIV (Toxicological Agents) or Category XVIII (Directed Energy Weapons)
Pages 49517 - 49531 [FR DOC # 2016-17506]

LENGTH: 17307  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Bureau of Industry and Security 15 CFR Parts 740 and 774
[Docket No. 120105019-5755-01] RIN 0694-AF52 Commerce Control List: Addition of
Items Determined To No Longer Warrant Control Under United States Munitions List
Category XIV (Toxicological Agents) or Category XVIII (Directed Energy Weapons)
AGENCY: Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Final
rule. -----------------------------------------------------------------------
SUMMARY: This final rule implements changes described in a proposed rule that
the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) published on June 17, 2015.
Specifically, this final rule describes how articles the President has
determined no longer warrant control under Category XIV (Toxicological Agents,
Including Chemical Agents, Biological Agents, and Associated Equipment) or
Category XVIII (Directed Energy Weapons) of the United States Munitions List
(USML) are now controlled under the Commerce Control List (CCL). The affected
Category XIV articles consist primarily of dissemination, detection, and
protection ``equipment'' and related articles, such as production and test
``equipment,'' and are controlled under new Export Control Classification
Numbers (ECCNs) 1A607, 1B607, 1C607, 1D607, and 1E607, as added to the CCL by
this final rule.

The affected Category XVIII articles consist primarily of tooling, production
``equipment,'' test and evaluation ``equipment,'' test models, and related
articles and are controlled under new ECCNs 6B619, 6D619 and 6E619, as added to
the CCL by this final rule. This final rule is one in a series of rules
describing how various types of articles that the President has determined no
longer warrant control on the USML, as part of the Administration's Export
Control Reform Initiative, are controlled on the CCL in accordance with the
requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). This final rule is
being published by BIS in conjunction with a final rule from the Department of
State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which amends the list of articles
controlled by USML Categories XIV and XVIII. The citations in this BIS rule to
USML Categories XIV and XVIII reflect the amendments contained in the Department
of State's rule. The revisions made by BIS in this rule are part of Commerce's
retrospective regulatory review plan under Executive Order 13563 completed in
August 2011. DATES: This rule is effective December 31, 2016. ADDRESSES: The
Department of Commerce's full retrospective regulatory review plan can be
accessed at: http://open.com
merce.gov/news/2011/08/23/commerce-plan-retrospective-analysis-existing-rules.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For questions regarding dissemination,
detection and protection ``equipment'' and related items that are controlled
under new ECCNs 1A607, 1B607, 1C607, 1D607, and 1E607, contact Richard P.
Duncan, Ph.D., Director, Chemical and Biological Controls Division, Office of
Nonproliferation and Treaty Compliance, Bureau of Industry and Security,
telephone: (202) 482-3343, email: Richard.Duncan@bis.doc.gov For questions
regarding tooling, production ``equipment,'' test and evaluation ``equipment,''
test models, and related items that are controlled under new ECCNs 6B619, 6D619
and 6E619, contact Mark Jaso, Sensors and Aviation Division, Office of National
Security  & Technology Transfer Controls, Bureau of Industry and Security,
telephone: (202) 482-0987, email: Mark.Jaso@bis.doc.gov SUPPLEMENTARY
INFORMATION: Background This final rule is published by the Bureau of Industry
and Security (BIS) as part of the Administration's Export Control Reform (ECR)
Initiative, the object of which is to protect and enhance U.S. national security
interests. The implementation of the ECR initiative includes amendment of the
International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and its U.S. Munitions List
(USML), so that they control only those items that provide the United States
with a critical military or intelligence advantage or otherwise warrant such
controls, and amendment of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) to
control military items that do not warrant USML controls. This series of
amendments to the ITAR and the EAR will reform the U.S. export control system to
enhance our national security by: (i) Improving the interoperability of U.S.
military forces with allied countries; (ii) strengthening the U.S. industrial
base by, among other things, reducing incentives for foreign manufacturers to
design out and avoid U.S.-origin content and services; and (iii) allowing export
control officials to focus government resources on transactions that pose
greater national security, foreign policy, or proliferation concerns than those
involving our NATO allies and other multi-regime partners. Following the
structure set forth in the final rule titled ``Revisions to the Export
Administration Regulations: Initial Implementation of Export Control Reform''
(78 FR 22660, April 16, 2013) (hereinafter the ``April 16 (initial
implementation) rule''), this final rule describes BIS's implementation of
controls, under the EAR's CCL, on certain dissemination, detection and
protection ``equipment'' and related articles previously controlled under USML
Category XIV in the ITAR and certain tooling, production ``equipment,'' test and
evaluation ``equipment,'' test models and related articles previously controlled
under USML Category XVIII of the ITAR. In the April 16 (initial implementation)
rule, BIS created a series of new ECCNs to control items that would be removed
from the USML and similar items from the Wassenaar Arrangement on Export
Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual Use Goods and Technologies Munitions
List (Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List or WAML) that were already controlled
elsewhere on the CCL. That final rule referred to this series of new ECCNs as
[[Page 49518]] the ``600 series,'' because the third character in each of these
new ECCNs is the number ``6.'' The first two characters of the ``600 series''
ECCNs serve the same function as any other ECCN as described in Sec. 738.2 of
the EAR. The first character is a number, within the range of 0 through 9, that
identifies the Category on the CCL in which the ECCN is located. The second
character is a letter, within the range of A through E, that identifies the
product group in a CCL Category. As indicated above, the third character in the
``600 series'' ECCNs is the number ``6,'' which distinguishes the items
controlled under this series of ECCNs from items identified under other ECCNs on
the CCL. With few exceptions, the final two characters identify the WAML
category that covers items that are the same or similar to items in a particular
``600 series'' ECCN. Pursuant to section 38(f) of the Arms Export Control Act
(AECA), the President is obligated to review the USML ``to determine what items,
if any, no longer warrant export controls under'' the AECA. The President must
report the results of the review to Congress and wait 30 days before removing
any such items from the USML. The report must ``describe the nature of any
controls to be imposed on that item under any other provision of law.'' 22
U.S.C. 2778(f)(1). The changes made by this final rule and in the State
Department's companion rule to Categories XIV and XVIII of the USML are based on
a review of these USML Categories by the Defense Department, which worked with
the Departments of State and Commerce in preparing these amendments. Other
agencies with expertise and equities in the items at issue in these rules were
consulted as well. The review focused on identifying those types of articles
that provide the United States with a critical military or intelligence
capability and that are not currently in normal commercial use. Such items
remain on the USML. Other items with less than a critical military or
intelligence capability not in normal commercial use will transition to the
``600 series'' controls. It is the intent of the agencies that USML Categories
XIV and XVIII, and the corresponding ``600 series'' ECCNs on the CCL, not
control items in normal commercial use. Such items should be controlled under
existing dual-use controls on the CCL, consistent with the Wassenaar Arrangement
List of Dual-Use Goods and Technologies. All references to the USML in this rule
are to the list of defense articles that are controlled for purposes of export,
temporary import, or brokering pursuant to the ITAR, and not to the list of
defense articles on the United States Munitions Import List (USMIL) that are
controlled by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) for
purposes of permanent import under its regulations at 27 CFR part 447. Pursuant
to section 38(a)(1) of the AECA, all defense articles controlled for export or
import, or that are subject to brokering controls, are part of the ``USML''
under the AECA. For the sake of clarity, references to the USMIL are to the list
of defense articles controlled by ATF for purposes of permanent import. All
defense articles described in the USMIL or the USML are subject to the brokering
controls administered by the U.S. Department of State in part 129 of the ITAR.
The transfer of defense articles from the ITAR's USML to the EAR's CCL, for
purposes of export controls, does not affect the list of defense articles that
are controlled on the USMIL under the AECA for purposes of permanent import. On
January 18, 2011, the President issued Executive Order 13563, affirming general
principles of regulation and directing government agencies to conduct
retrospective reviews of existing regulations. The revisions made by this rule
are part of Commerce's retrospective regulatory review plan under Executive
Order 13563. Commerce's full plan, completed in August 2011, can be accessed at:
http://open.com
merce.gov/news/2011/08/23/commerce-plan-retrospective-analysis-existing-rules.
This final rule implements amendments to the EAR proposed in BIS's rule titled
``Commerce Control List: Addition of Items Determined to No Longer Warrant
Control under United States Munitions List Category XIV (Toxicological Agents)
or Category XVIII (Directed Energy Weapons),'' which was published in the
Federal Register on June 17, 2015 (RIN 0694- AF52) (80 FR 34562) (herein ``the
June 17 (toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule'').
Dissemination, Detection and Protection ``Equipment'' and Related Items Public
Comments and BIS Responses BIS received comments from eight parties in response
to the proposed amendments in the June 17 (toxicological agents and directed
energy weapons) rule that addressed dissemination, detection and protection
``equipment'' and related items. ECCN 1A607 (Military Dissemination, Detection,
and Protection ``Equipment'') Comment: One commenter noted that tear gas and
riot control agents were dropped from proposed USML Category XIV(d), but did not
appear in proposed ECCN 1A607. Response: The tear gas and riot control agents
removed from USML Category XIV(d) are now controlled under ECCN 1C607.a.1
through a.6, as they were proposed to be controlled in BIS's June 17
(toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule. Therefore, no further
action is required. ECCN 1A607.f (Protection ``Equipment'') Comment: One
commenter noted that proposed ECCN 1A607.f included protection ``equipment,''
but did not specifically indicate that it controlled Chemical Agent Resistant
Coatings (CARC). The commenter recommended that CARC be specifically identified
in ECCN 1A607.f or that the word ``material'' be added so that companies would
be more likely to interpret ECCN 1A607.f to include coatings, such as CARC. In
addition, the commenter recommended that the export controls on CARC be changed
to align more closely with export controls maintained by U.S. allies, who do not
require an export license for CARC to most destinations. Specifically, the
commenter felt that companies familiar with the European Union military list
could become confused, because the controls in ECCN 1A607.f are similar to those
described in ML.7.f, which does not control CARC. In the event that CARC
continues to require a license to most destinations, the commenter recommended
that all CARC be placed under the export licensing jurisdiction of a single U.S.
Government agency to simplify jurisdictional and/or classification
determinations. Response: ECCN 1A607.f indicates that it controls protection
``equipment'' not controlled by USML Category XIV(f) that is ``specially
designed'' for military use and for defense against materials specified by USML
XIV(a) or (b) or riot control agents controlled by ECCN 1C607.a. BIS believes
that this control language, as revised in this final rule to specify
``protective coatings'' (as well as air conditioning units and protective
clothing), is now sufficiently clear as to leave no doubt that it applies to
paintings/coatings such as CARC. Consequently, the control language used in the
June 17 (toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule has been
retained in this final rule with only the above-referenced change (i.e., the
[[Page 49519]] revision of the parenthetical phrase in the introductory text of
ECCN 1A607.f to read, as follows: ``including air conditioning units, protective
coatings, and protective clothing.'' As for the scope of the license
requirements that apply to CARC, all items in ECCN 1A607, including CARC, are
subject to NS Column 1 and RS Column 1 license requirements, which apply to all
destinations, except Canada. While the scope of the EAR license requirements on
CARC is considerably broader than that maintained by some of our allies, exports
of CARC are authorized without a license, under License Exception STA, for
destinations in, or nationals of, Country Group A:5 in Supplement No. 1 to part
740 of the EAR, which currently contains 36 countries. Furthermore, the EAR
requirements that apply to the CARC that were previously controlled under USML
Category XIV and are now controlled under new ECCN 1A607.f represent a
significant easing of the regulatory burden on exporters of such CARC through:
(i) Elimination of some license requirements; (ii) greater availability of
license exceptions; (iii) simpler license application procedures; and (iv)
reduced or eliminated registration fees. With respect to the commenter's
recommendation that all CARC be placed under the export licensing jurisdiction
of a single U.S. Government agency, BIS notes that the only CARC that continue
to be controlled under USML Category XIV (specifically, in paragraph (f)(7) of
USML Category XIV) are those that have been qualified to one of the following
four military specifications: MIL-PRF-32348, MIL-DTL-64159, MIL-C-46168, or
MIL-DTL- 53039. In light of the anticipated benefits of moving certain CARC from
USML Category XIV to new ECCN 1A607 on the EAR's CCL, as described above, there
would appear to be little practical upside to continuing to control all CARC
under the export licensing jurisdiction of a single U.S. Government agency.
Comment: One commenter recommended that all items identified in USML Category
XIV(f)(4) for individual protection against chemical and biological agents
specified in USML Category XIV(a) or (b) should be controlled under new ECCN
1A607.f on the CCL. In addition, the commenter recommended that all individual
protection ``equipment'' and clothing controlled under new ECCN 1A607.f should
be authorized for export under License Exception BAG under special provisions
similar to those currently applicable to ``personal protective equipment''
(i.e., ECCN 1A613.c or .d) in accordance with Section 740.14(h) of the EAR.
Response: USML Category XIV(f)(4), as set forth in the State Department's
companion rule to this final rule, controls equipment or items that offer
individual or collective protection against items specified in USML Category
XIV(a) or (b), as follows: (1) M53 Chemical Biological Protective Mask or M50
Joint Service General Purpose Mask (JSGPM); (2) filter cartridges containing
sorbents controlled in USML Category XIV(f)(4)(iii); (3) ASZM-TEDA carbon; and
(4) ensembles, garments, suits, jackets, pants, boots or socks for individual
protection, and liners for collective protection, that allow no more than 1%
breakthrough of GD, or no more than 2% breakthrough of any other chemical
specified in USML Category XIV(a), when evaluated by executing the applicable
method(s) of testing described in the current version of Test Operations
Procedure (TOP) 08-2-201 (Collective Protection Novel Closures Testing) or
08-2-501 (Permeation Testing of Materials with Chemical Agents or
Simulants--Swatch Testing) and using the defined DoD-specific requirements
described therein. The control criteria in USML Category XIV(f)(4), as described
above, are the result of a review of USML Category XIV, as part of the
Administration's Export Control Reform (ECR) Initiative, to ensure that it
controls only those items that are inherently military, provide the United
States with a critical military or intelligence advantage, or otherwise warrant
control on the USML. In the absence of any compelling evidence contrary to the
results of this review, no change is contemplated, with respect to these USML
Category XIV criteria, at this time. New ECCN 1A607.f controls ``equipment''
previously controlled under USML Category XIV(f)(4) or (f)(5) that the President
has determined no longer warrants control on the USML (i.e., protection
``equipment,'' including ``equipment'' for individual protection, not controlled
by USML Category XIV(f) that is ``specially designed'' for military use and for
defense against materials specified by USML XIV(a) or (b) or riot control agents
controlled by ECCN 1C607.a). This final rule does not expand the scope of new
ECCN 1A607.f to control all ``equipment'' for individual protection against
chemical and biological agents specified in USML Category XIV(a) or (b), because
this change would be contrary to the President's determination, based on the
results of the aforementioned review of USML Category XIV (i.e., it would result
in the transfer to the CCL of items that are inherently military, provide the
United States with a critical military or intelligence advantage, or otherwise
warrant control on the USML). With respect to the commenter's recommendation
that all individual protection ``equipment'' and clothing controlled under new
ECCN 1A607.f should be authorized for export under License Exception BAG (under
special provisions similar to those currently applicable to ``personal
protective equipment''), this final rule amends the License Exception BAG
provisions in Section 740.14(h) of the EAR to authorize exports, reexports, or
in-country transfers of chemical or biological agent protective gear consistent
with the requirements and restrictions described therein. In a corresponding
change, this final rule also amends the License Exception TMP provisions in
Section 740.9(a)(11) of the EAR to authorize temporary exports, reexports, or
in-country transfers of chemical or biological agent protective gear consistent
with the requirements and restrictions described therein. These changes are also
intended to make the scope of these license exceptions, as they apply to
chemical or biological agent protective gear controlled under new ECCN 1A607.f,
conform with the scope of the ITAR exemption for personal protective equipment
in Section 123.17 of the ITAR. Comment: One commenter noted that neither BIS's
June 17 (toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule nor State's
companion proposed rule clearly indicated whether filter cartridges containing
sorbents funded by the Department of Defense via contract or other funding
authorization, as proposed to be controlled under USML Category XIV(n), would be
controlled under new ECCN 1A607.f on the CCL or under USML Category XIV(f) or
(n). In addition, the commenter noted that neither of these proposed rules
clearly indicated whether filter cartridges that meet the requirements of
specifications PRF-EA-2251 for the M61 filter cartridge, but do not contain
ASZM-TEDA carbon, would be controlled under new ECCN 1A605.f or under USML
Category XIV(f) or (n). Response: Neither of the observations made by the
commenter requires any modification to new ECCN 1A607.f. Filter cartridges
containing developmental sorbents are controlled under USML Category
XIV(f)(4)(ii) if the sorbents were funded by the Department of Defense via
contract or other funding authorization, as specified in USML Category XIV(n),
and none of the [[Page 49520]] elements in Note 1 to paragraph (n) apply (i.e.,
the sorbents are determined to be subject to the EAR via a commodity
jurisdiction determination or they are identified in the relevant Department of
Defense contract or other funding authorization as being developed for both
civil and military applications). The commenter's question concerning the export
licensing jurisdiction status of filter cartridges reflects the fact that
State's companion Category XIV/XVIII proposed rule did not specifically
enumerate (in Category XIV) filter cartridges containing sorbents controlled
under USML Category XIV(n). USML Category XIV(f)(ii), in State's proposed rule,
specified that it controlled filter cartridges containing sorbents controlled
under USML Category XIV(f)(iii), but the control status of filter cartridges
containing sorbents enumerated in proposed USML Category XIV(n) was not
specifically indicated. Consequently, State's companion Category XIV/ XVIII
final rule corrects this oversight by clarifying USML Category XIV to indicate
that it applies to filter cartridges that contain any of the sorbents specified
under USML Category XIV(f)(iii) or (n) and, in so doing, eliminates the
possibility that such filter cartridges could be controlled under new ECCN
1A607.f on the CCL (except to the limited extent that sorbents funded by the
Department of Defense via contract or other funding authorization are excluded
from USML Category XIV(n) for a specified period of time, as indicated in Note 3
thereto). In response to the commenter's request for clarification concerning
controls on filter cartridges that meet the requirements of specifications
PRF-EA-2251 for the M61 filter cartridge, but do not contain ASZM-TEDA carbon,
their control status also would depend upon the sorbents that they contain. As
indicated above, filter cartridges that contain any of the sorbents controlled
by USML Category XIV (i.e., sorbents specified under paragraph (f)(iii) or (n)
of Category XIV) are controlled under USML Category XIV. Otherwise, they are
controlled under new ECCN 1A607.f. ECCN 1A607.h (Detection/Identification
``Equipment'') Comment: One commenter interpreted BIS's June 17 (toxicological
agents and directed energy weapons) rule and State's companion USML Category
XIV/XVIII proposed rule as transferring to new ECCN 1A607.h on the CCL all
detection equipment, previously controlled under USML Category XIV(f)(2), that
is ``specially designed'' for military use for the detection of agents
identified in proposed USML Category XIV(a) or (b), except for: (1) Detection
equipment that is classified or that relates to classified information; and (2)
military detection equipment developed under a DoD contract or other funding
authorization, as described in proposed USML Category XIV(f)(2) and subject to
the restriction in Note 3 thereto, which indicated that the controls in
paragraph (f)(2) would apply only to controls dated one year (or later) after
the date of publication of State's USML Category XIV final rule. Note 3 to
paragraph (f)(2) was mistakenly included in USML Category XIV, as described in
State's proposed rule; consequently, it does not appear in State's final rule.
Response: New ECCN 1A607.h controls ``equipment'' not controlled by USML
Category XIV(f) that is ``specially designed'' for military use and for the
detection or identification of materials specified by USML Category XIV(a) or
(b) or riot control agents controlled by ECCN 1C607.a on the CCL. Because new
ECCN 1A607.h indicates that it does not include any detection equipment that is
controlled by USML Category XIV(f), the scope of the ECCN is necessarily
dependent upon the scope of Category XIV(f), which, in turn, is subject to
interpretation by the U.S. Department of State. Therefore, the Department of
State, and not BIS, is the appropriate U.S. Government agency to confirm whether
the commenter's statement is correct (in whole or in part), as it applies to the
scope of new ECCN 1A607.h and the ``equipment'' previously controlled under USML
Category XIV(f)(2). Consequently, this question should be addressed, with
respect to specific detection ``equipment,'' through the submission of one or
more commodity jurisdiction (CJ) requests to the State Department's Directorate
of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), consistent with the requirements in the ITAR.
ECCN 1A607.k (Medical Countermeasures) Comment: One commenter noted that items
controlled under proposed new ECCN 1A607.k (military medical countermeasures
``equipment''), and related ``technology'' controlled under proposed new ECCN
1E607.a, would not be eligible for export/reexport under the License Exception
GOV provisions in Section 740.11(d), International Inspections under the
Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), to destinations located outside of Country
Group A:5 in Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. Response: The commenter is
correct in noting that ``equipment'' in new ECCN 1A607.k and related
``technology'' in new ECCN 1E607.a are not eligible for export under the License
Exception GOV provisions in Section 740.11(d) of the EAR, except to destinations
located in Country Group A:5. This restriction, which is described in Section
740.11(d)(2)(iii) of the EAR, was implemented as part of BIS's April 16 (initial
implementation) rule in which the License Exception GOV provisions in Section
740.11 of the EAR were revised. Among the License Exception GOV provisions that
were affected by these revisions were those authorizing exports and reexports to
the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) and exports and
reexports by the OPCW for official international inspection and verification use
under the terms of the CWC. Under the OPCW authorization, as revised, Section
740.11(d)(2)(iii) of the EAR prohibits exports and reexports of items controlled
under ``600 series'' ECCNs on the CCL to countries not listed in Country Group
A:5. Country Group A:5 currently consists of 36 countries, as established by
BIS's April 16 (initial implementation) rule, which became effective on October
15, 2013. The scope of the OPCW authorization in License Exception GOV was the
result of extensive U.S. Government interagency review and discussion.
Furthermore, the scope of eligible countries for the OPCW authorization (i.e.,
36 countries), as established by BIS's April 16 (initial implementation) rule,
was initially broader than the country scope that was authorized under the
License Exception GOV provisions for cooperating governments, as described in
Section 740.11(c) of the EAR, which then authorized exports and reexports to 27
cooperating governments and agencies of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO). The country scope of the cooperating governments authorization under
License Exception GOV was subsequently expanded, by BIS's Wassenaar Arrangement
(WA) 2014 Plenary final rule (98 FR 29432, May 21, 2015), to include 41
cooperating governments and agencies of NATO. Currently, the country scope of
the cooperating governments and OPCW authorizations under License Exception GOV
are roughly equivalent (i.e., the former applies to four more countries than the
latter--two of those countries are CWC States Parties and one is a special
administrative region of a State Party). In light of the recent changes to the
License Exception GOV provisions described above, BIS does [[Page 49521]] not
have any immediate plans to address possible revisions to the country scope of
the OPCW authorization. BIS also considers any such action to be outside the
scope of this rulemaking, which does not specifically address EAR requirements
involving the CWC and the OPCW. ECCN 1A607.x (``Parts,'' ``Components,''
``Accessories,'' and ``Attachments'') Comment: One commenter noted that proposed
new ECCN 1A607.x indicated that it controlled ``parts,'' ``components,''
``accessories,'' and ``attachments'' ``specially designed'' for the
``equipment'' described in proposed ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, or .j. However, the
commenter also noted that ``parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,'' and
``attachments'' ``specially designed'' for the detection/identification
``equipment'' described in proposed ECCN 1A607.h were not included in proposed
ECCN 1A607.x. As a result, the commenter questioned whether any ``parts,''
``components,'' ``accessories,'' and ``attachments'' ``specially designed'' for
detection/identification ``equipment'' that might be removed from the USML, as a
result of the proposed revisions to USML Category XIV(f), would be controlled
under proposed new ECCN 1A607 on the CCL (e.g., under proposed ECCN 1A607.x).
Response: The commenter is correct in noting that proposed new ECCN 1A607.x
specified only those ``parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,'' and
``attachments'' ``specially designed'' for the ``equipment'' described in ECCN
1A607.e, .f, .g, or .j, and not those ``parts,'' ``components,''
``accessories,'' and ``attachments'' ``specially designed'' for
detection/identification ``equipment'' described in ECCN 1A607.h. This final
rule corrects that oversight. New ECCN 1A607.x, as added to the CCL by this
final rule, indicates that it controls ``parts,'' ``components,''
``accessories,'' and ``attachments'' that are ``specially designed'' for a
commodity controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, .h, or .j or for a defense article
controlled by USML Category XIV(f) and that are not enumerated or otherwise
described elsewhere in the USML. General Comments on Dissemination, Detection
and Protection ``Equipment'' Comment: One commenter noted that the BIS and State
Category XIV/ XVIII proposed rules omitted coverage of the Wassenaar Munitions
List (WAML) items in WAML 7.a (Biological agents or radioactive materials
adapted for use in war to produce casualties in humans and animals, degrade
equipment, or damage crops or the environment). Response: The items noted by the
commenter are not identified in any of the new ``600 series'' ECCNs described in
BIS's June 17 (toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule, but they
are clearly enumerated under USML Category XIV in State's companion proposed
rule. Proposed USML Category XIV(b)(1)(ii) identifies specific biological agents
that have been militarized, as described in USML Category XIV(b)(1)(i), and
proposed USML Category XIV(b)(2) describes biological agents identified under
ECCN 1C351, 1C353, or 1C354 on the EAR's CCL that have been militarized, as
described in USML Category XIV(b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii). These defense articles
are identified in the USML Category XIV amendments contained in State's
companion rule to this final rule. Comment: One commenter noted that the
following two Australia Group (AG) controlled items were not identified in
either the BIS or State Category XIV/XVIII proposed rules: (1) Valves with a
closure element designed to be interchangeable, as listed under 6.b on the AG
Control List of Dual-Use Chemical Manufacturing Facilities and Equipment); and
(2) nose-only exposure apparatus, as listed under 8.b on the AG Control List of
Dual-Use Biological Equipment. Response: The commenter accurately noted that
neither of the two items were identified in the BIS and State Category XIV/XVIII
proposed rules. However, because these items are identified as dual-use items on
the AG common control lists indicated above, neither item is within the scope of
this rulemaking. The valves, described under 6.b on the AG chemical
manufacturing facilities and equipment control list, are currently controlled
under ECCN 2B350.g.2 on the CCL. The nose-only exposure apparatus, described
under 8.b on the AG biological equipment common control list, was recently added
to this AG control list and is currently controlled under ECCN 2B352.h based on
a recent update of AG listed items on the CCL (see 81 FR 36458, June 7, 2016).
Comment: One commenter indicated that some of the proposed new ``600 series''
ECCNs in BIS's June 17 (toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule
maintained unilateral controls on certain items that were proposed to be
transferred to the CCL from USML Category XIV. Response: All the items described
in the new ``600 series'' ECCNs created by this final rule were previously
controlled on the USML under the ITAR and were added to these new ECCNs on the
CCL only after the President determined that these items no longer warrant
control on the USML for the reasons set forth above. Changes Made by This Rule
to Controls on Certain Dissemination, Detection and Protection ``Equipment'' and
Related Items Previously Controlled Under USML Category XIV This final rule
creates five new ``600 series'' ECCNs in CCL Category 1 (ECCNs 1A607, 1B607,
1C607, 1D607, and 1E607) that clarify the EAR controls applicable to certain
dissemination, detection and protection ``equipment'' and related items that the
President has determined no longer warrant control under USML Category XIV.
Terms such as ``part,'' ``component'' ``accessories,'' ``attachments,'' and
``specially designed'' are applied in the same manner in this rule as those
terms are defined in Section 772.1 of the EAR. In addition, to assist exporters
in determining the control status of their items, a ``Specially Designed''
Decision Tool and a CCL Order of Review Decision Tool are available on the BIS
Web site at: http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/decision-tree-tools. New ECCN
1A607 Military dissemination ``equipment'' for riot control agents, military
detection and protection ``equipment'' for toxicological agents (including
chemical, biological, and riot control agents), and related commodities. In new
ECCN 1A607, paragraphs .a through .d, paragraph .i, and paragraphs .l through .w
are reserved. Paragraph .e of ECCN 1A607 controls ``equipment'' ``specially
designed'' for military use and for the dissemination of any of the riot control
agents controlled in ECCN 1C607.a. Paragraph .f of ECCN 1A607 controls
protection ``equipment'' ``specially designed'' for military use and for defense
against either materials controlled by USML Category XIV(a) or (b) or any of the
riot control agents in new ECCN 1C607.a. Paragraph .g of ECCN 1A607 controls
decontamination ``equipment'' not controlled by USML Category XIV(f) that is
``specially designed'' for military use and for the decontamination of objects
contaminated with materials controlled by USML Category XIV(a) or (b). Paragraph
.h controls ``equipment'' not controlled by USML Category XIV(f) that is
``specially designed'' for military use and for the detection or identification
of either materials specified by USML Category XIV(a) or (b) or riot control
agents controlled by new ECCN 1C607.a. Paragraph .j controls ``equipment''
``specially [[Page 49522]] designed'' to: (i) Interface with a detector,
shelter, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft controlled by the USML or a ``600 series''
ECCN; and (ii) collect and process samples of articles controlled in USML
Category XIV(a) or (b). Paragraph .k controls medical countermeasures that are
``specially designed'' for military use (including pre- and post- treatments,
antidotes, and medical diagnostics) and ``specially designed'' to counter
chemical agents controlled by USML Category XIV(a). Paragraph .x controls
``parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,'' and ``attachments'' that are
``specially designed'' for a commodity controlled under ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g,
.h, or .j or a defense article controlled in USML Category XIV(f) and that are
not enumerated or otherwise described elsewhere in the USML. New ECCN 1B607
Military test, inspection, and production ``equipment'' and related commodities
``specially designed'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' repair,
overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities identified in ECCN 1A607 or 1C607, or
defense articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XIV. In new
ECCN 1B607, paragraph .a controls ``equipment,'' not including incinerators,
that is ``specially designed'' for the destruction of chemical agents controlled
by USML Category XIV(a). Paragraph .b of ECCN 1B607 controls test facilities and
``equipment'' that are ``specially designed'' for military certification,
qualification, or testing of commodities controlled by new ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g,
.h, or .j or by USML Category XIV(f), except for XIV(f)(1). Paragraph .c of ECCN
1B607 controls tooling and ``equipment'' ``specially designed'' for the
``development,'' ``production,'' repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of
commodities controlled under new ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, .h, or .j or USML
Category XIV(f). Paragraphs .d through .w are reserved. Paragraph .x controls
``parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,'' and ``attachments,'' not enumerated
or otherwise described elsewhere in the USML, that are ``specially designed''
for a commodity controlled by ECCN 1B607.b or .c or for a defense article
controlled by USML Category XIV(f). As indicated above, ECCN 1B607.b does not
control test facilities and ``equipment'' that are ``specially designed'' for
military certification, qualification, or testing of commodities and are
enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XIV(f)(1), as set forth in
State's companion rule to this final rule (e.g., see the equipment in USML
Category XIV(f)(1)(ii) that is ``specially designed'' for testing the articles
controlled in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (e), or (f)(4) of USML Category XIV). In
addition to the test facilities and ``equipment'' controlled by ECCN 1B607.b,
see the tooling and ``equipment'' classified under ECCN 2B350 or 2B352 for
producing the chemical/biological agents, precursors, or defoliants described in
USML Category XIV(a), (b), (c), or (e). The EAR also control tooling and
``equipment'' to produce the antibodies/polynucleotides and vaccines described
in USML Category XIV(g) and (h), respectively, as follows: lab ``equipment''
designated as EAR99 under the EAR; biological dual- use ``equipment'' (including
protective ``equipment'') classified under ECCN 2B352; and EAR-controlled
biological systems for making vaccines (involving the use of mice, rabbits,
etc.). New ECCN 1C607 Tear gases, riot control agents and materials for the
detection and decontamination of chemical warfare agents. New ECCN 1C607.a
controls specified tear gases and riot control agents. Paragraph .b of ECCN
1C607 controls ``biopolymers'' not controlled by USML Category XIV(g) that are
``specially designed'' or processed for the detection or identification of
chemical warfare (CW) agents specified by USML Category XIV(a) and the cultures
of specific cells used to produce them. Paragraph .c controls specified
``biocatalysts'' and biological systems that are not controlled by USML Category
XIV(g) and are ``specially designed'' for the decontamination or degradation of
CW agents specified by USML Category XIV(a). Paragraph .d controls chemical
mixtures not controlled by USML Category XIV(f) that are ``specially designed''
for military use for the decontamination of objects contaminated with materials
specified by USML Category XIV(a) or (b). New ECCN 1D607 ``Software''
``specially designed'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation, or
maintenance of items controlled by 1A607, 1B607 or 1C607. New ECCN 1D607.a
controls ``software'' ``specially designed'' for the ``development,''
``production,'' operation, or maintenance of items controlled by ECCN 1A607,
1B607 or 1C607. Paragraph .b of ECCN 1D607 is reserved. New ECCN 1E607
``Technology'' ``required'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation,
installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled
by ECCN 1A607, 1B607, 1C607, or 1D607. New ECCN 1E607.a controls ``technology''
``required'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation, installation,
maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN
1A607, 1B607, 1C607, or 1D607. Paragraph .b of ECCN 1E607 is reserved.
Amendments to License Exceptions BAG and TMP related to Individual Protection
``Equipment'' in ECCN 1A607.f. In response to public comments recommending that
all individual protection ``equipment'' and clothing controlled under new ECCN
1A607.f should be authorized for export under License Exception BAG (under
special provisions similar to those currently applicable to ``personal
protective equipment''), this final rule amends the License Exception BAG
provisions in Section 740.14(h) of the EAR to authorize exports, reexports, or
in-country transfers of chemical or biological agent protective gear consistent
with the requirements and restrictions described therein. In a corresponding
change, this final rule also amends the License Exception TMP provisions in
Section 740.9(a)(11) of the EAR to authorize temporary exports, reexports, or
in-country transfers of chemical or biological agent protective gear consistent
with the requirements and restrictions described therein. The amendments to
License Exceptions BAG and TMP also change the requirements for Afghanistan to
be consistent with those of the majority of other Country Group D:5 destinations
(i.e., the U.S. person authorized to use the license exception must be
affiliated with the U.S. Government and be traveling on official business or
traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract). The same requirement
applies to the use of these license exception provisions for Iraq, also a D:5
country, with the additional option that the U.S. person must be traveling to
Iraq under a direct authorization by the Government of Iraq and engaging in
activities for, on behalf of, or at the request of, the Government of Iraq.
These amendments are also intended to ensure that the scope of these license
exceptions, as they apply to chemical or biological agent protective gear
controlled under new ECCN 1A607.f, conforms with the scope of the ITAR exemption
for personal protective equipment in Section 123.17 of the ITAR (e.g., by
correcting the provisions for Afghanistan, as described above, to be consistent
with those of the majority of other Country Group D:5 destinations). [[Page
49523]] Tooling, Production ``Equipment,'' Test and Evaluation ``Equipment,''
Test Models and Other Articles Related to Directed Energy Weapons Public
Comments and BIS Responses BIS received comments from two parties in response to
the proposed amendments in the June 17 (toxicological agents and directed energy
weapons) rule related to tooling, production ``equipment,'' test, and evaluation
``equipment,'' test models and other articles related to directed energy
weapons. General Comments on Items Related to Directed Energy Weapons Comment:
One commenter noted that the BIS and State Category XIV/ XVIII proposed rules
omitted coverage of the Wassenaar Munitions List (WAML) items in WAML 19.f
(``Laser'' systems ``specially designed'' to cause permanent blindness to
unenhanced vision). Response: The items noted by the commenter are not
identified in any of the new ``600 series'' ECCNs described in BIS's June 17
(toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule, but they are clearly
enumerated under USML Category XVIII in State's companion proposed rule.
Proposed USML Category XVIII(a) identifies directed energy weapons (DEW) systems
or ``equipment'' that, as their sole or primary purpose, cause permanent or
flash blindness. These articles are identified in the USML Category XVIII
amendments contained in State's companion rule to this final rule. Comment: One
commenter indicated that some of the proposed new ``600 series'' ECCNs in BIS's
June 17 (toxicological agents and directed energy weapons) rule maintained
unilateral controls on certain items that were proposed to be transferred to the
CCL from the USML Category XVIII. Response: All the items described in the new
``600 series'' ECCNs created by this final rule were previously controlled on
the USML under the ITAR and were added to these new ECCNs on the CCL only after
the President determined that these items no longer warrant control on the USML
for the reasons set forth above. Changes Made by This Rule to Controls on
Certain Tooling, Production ``Equipment,'' Test and Evaluation ``Equipment'' and
Test Models Previously Controlled Under USML Category XVIII This rule creates
three new ``600 series'' ECCNs in CCL Category 6 (ECCNs 6B619, 6D619 and 6E619)
that clarify the EAR controls applicable to certain tooling, production
``equipment,'' test and evaluation ``equipment,'' test models, and related
articles for Directed Energy Weapons (DEWs) that the President has determined no
longer warrant control under USML Category XVIII. Terms such as ``part,''
``component'' ``accessories,'' ``attachments,'' and ``specially designed'' are
applied in the same manner in this rule as those terms are defined in Section
772.1 of the EAR. In addition, to assist exporters in determining the control
status of their items, a ``Specially Designed'' Decision Tool and a CCL Order of
Review Decision Tool are available on the BIS Web site at:
http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/decision-tree-tools. New ECCN 6B619 Test,
inspection and production ``equipment,'' and related commodities, ``specially
designed'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' repair, overhaul, or
refurbishing of commodities enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category
XVIII. New ECCN 6B619.a controls tooling, templates, jigs, mandrels, molds,
dies, fixtures, alignment mechanisms, and test ``equipment'' not enumerated or
otherwise described in USML Category XVIII and not elsewhere specified on the
USML that are ``specially designed'' for the ``development,'' ``production,''
repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by USML Category
XVIII. The commodities that are controlled under new ECCN 6B619.a are used to
produce directed energy weapons (including non-lethal directed energy weapons,
such as active denial systems) and are similar to commodities that are in
operation in a number of other countries, some of which are not allies of the
United States or members of multinational export control regimes. Research and
development is currently underway to determine the possible uses of such
commodities (e.g., to protect the Earth from asteroids, or for perimeter
security and crowd control). Possession of such commodities does not confer a
significant military advantage on the United States and, therefore, the
inclusion of such commodities on the CCL would be appropriate. Paragraphs .b
through .w of ECCN 6B619 are reserved. Paragraph .x controls ``parts,''
``components,'' ``accessories,'' and ``attachments'' ``specially designed'' for
a commodity subject to control under paragraph .a of this ECCN and not
enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XVIII and not elsewhere
specified on the USML. New ECCN 6D619 ``Software'' ``specially designed'' for
the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation or maintenance of commodities
controlled by 6B619. New ECCN 6D619 controls ``software'' ``specially designed''
for the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation or maintenance of commodities
controlled by ECCN 6B619. Inclusion of this ``software'' on the CCL is
appropriate, because it is limited to ``software'' ``specially designed'' for
ECCN 6B619 commodities and does not include any ``software'' for items
specifically enumerated or otherwise described on the USML. New ECCN 6E619
``Technology'' ``required'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation,
installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of commodities
controlled by 6B619 or ``software'' controlled by 6D619. New ECCN 6E619 controls
``technology'' ``required'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation,
installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of commodities
controlled by ECCN 6B619, or ``software'' controlled by 6D619. Inclusion of this
``technology'' on the CCL is appropriate, because it is limited to
``technology'' ``required'' for ECCN 6B619 commodities and does not include any
``technology'' for items specifically enumerated or otherwise described on the
USML. Applicable Controls for the New ``600 Series'' ECCNs Created by This Rule
Pursuant to the framework established in the April 16 (initial implementation)
rule, detection and protection ``equipment'' and related commodities classified
under ECCN 1A607; related test, inspection and production ``equipment''
classified under ECCN 1B607; tear gases, riot control agents and related
commodities classified under ECCN 1C607 (except for items listed in ECCN
1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12, or a.14, all of which are specifically excluded from
WAML Category 7 by Note 1 thereto); related ``software'' classified under ECCN
1D607 (except ``software'' for items listed in ECCN 1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12, or
a.14); and related ``technology'' classified under ECCN 1E607 (except
``technology'' for items listed in ECCN 1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12, or a.14 and
1D607 ``software'' therefor) are subject to the licensing policies that apply to
items controlled for national security (NS) reasons, as described in Sec.
742.4(b)(1)--specifically, NS Column 1 controls. The same level of NS controls
and licensing policies also apply to the directed energy weapons items that are
controlled under the three new ECCNs (i.e., test, [[Page 49524]] inspection, and
production ``equipment'' classified under ECCN 6B619; related ``software''
classified under ECCN 6D619; and related ``technology'' classified under ECCN
6E619) that this rule adds to Category 6 of the CCL. In addition, all the items
that are controlled under the new ECCNs created by this rule are subject to the
regional stability (RS) licensing policies set forth in Sec. 742.6(a)(1), i.e.,
RS Column 1, as well as antiterrorism (AT Column 1) and United Nations (UN)
controls. Also, in accordance with Sec. Sec. 742.4(b)(1) and 742.6(b)(1) of the
EAR, exports and reexports of ``600 series'' items controlled for NS or RS
reasons will be reviewed consistent with United States arms embargo policies in
Sec. 126.1 of the ITAR, if destined to a country listed in Country Group D:5 of
Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. All items controlled for NS or RS
reasons, as set forth in this final rule, are subject to this licensing policy.
Effects of This Final Rule BIS believes that the principal effect of this final
rule, when considered in the context of similar rules being published as part of
the ECR, will be to provide greater flexibility for exports and reexports to
NATO member countries and other multiple-regime-member countries of items the
President determines no longer warrant control on the USML. This greater
flexibility is in the form of: the application of the EAR's de minimis threshold
principle for items constituting less than a de minimis amount of controlled
U.S.-origin content in foreign made items; the availability of license
exceptions, particularly License Exceptions ``Servicing and Replacement of Parts
and Equipment'' (RPL) and ``Strategic Trade Authorization'' (STA); the
elimination of requirements for manufacturing license agreements and technical
assistance agreements in connection with exports of technology; and a reduction
in, or the elimination of, exporter and manufacturer registration requirements
and associated registration fees. Some of these specific effects are discussed
in more detail, below. De Minimis The April 16 (initial implementation) rule
imposed certain unique de minimis requirements on items controlled under the new
``600 series'' ECCNs. Section 734.3 of the EAR provides, inter alia, that, under
certain conditions, items made outside the United States that incorporate items
subject to the EAR are not subject to the EAR if they do not exceed a ``de
minimis'' percentage of controlled U.S. origin content. Under Section 734.4 of
the EAR, as amended by the April 16 (initial implementation) rule, there is no
eligibility for de minimis treatment for a foreign-made item that incorporates
U.S.-origin ``600 series'' items when the foreign-made item is destined for a
country that is subject to a U.S. arms embargo, i.e., a country listed in
Country Group D:5 of Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. Items controlled
under the new ``600 series'' ECCNs created by this rule are eligible for de
minimis treatment under the EAR, provided that the foreign-made items into which
they are incorporated are not destined for a country listed in Country Group
D:5. In contrast, the AECA does not permit the ITAR to have a de minimis
treatment for USML-listed items, regardless of the significance or
insignificance of the U.S.- origin content or the percentage of U.S.-origin
content in the foreign- made item (i.e., USML-listed items remain subject to the
ITAR when they are incorporated abroad into a foreign-made item, regardless of
either of these factors). Use of License Exceptions The April 16 (initial
implementation) rule imposed certain restrictions on the use of license
exceptions for items controlled under ``600 series'' ECCNs on the CCL. The
general restrictions that apply to the use of license exceptions for such items
are described in Sec. 740.2(a)(13) of the EAR. The EAR provisions that describe
the requirements specific to individual license exceptions contain additional
restrictions on the use of license exceptions for such items. For example, this
rule authorizes limited License Exception STA availability for the new ``600
series'' ECCNs contained herein. None of the items controlled under these new
ECCNs are eligible for the STA ``controls of lesser sensitivity'' described in
Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR. Instead, STA eligibility for all such items is
limited to the destinations listed in Sec. 740.20(c)(1) of the EAR (i.e.,
Country Group A:5 destinations indicated in Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the
EAR). In addition, such items must be for: (1) ultimate end-use by a person of a
type specified in Sec. 740.20(b)(3)(ii) of the EAR (i.e., the armed forces,
police, paramilitary, law enforcement, customs, correctional, fire, or a search
and rescue agency of a government of one of the countries listed in Country
Group A:5 or the United States Government); or (2) the ``development,''
``production,'' operation installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or
refurbishing of an item, in one of the countries listed in Country Group A:5 or
the United States, that will ultimately be used by any such government agencies,
the United States Government, or by a person in the United States. The use of
License Exception STA also may be authorized, under certain circumstances
described in Sec. 740.20(b)(3)(ii)(C), where the U.S. Government has otherwise
authorized the ultimate end-use under a license. None of the items controlled
under the new ``600 series'' ECCNs created by this rule are treated as ``end
items'' for purposes of License Exception STA and, therefore, such items are not
subject to the License Exception STA eligibility request requirements in Sec.
740.20(g) of the EAR. Items controlled under new ECCN 1B607 or 6B619 are also
eligible for License Exception LVS (limited value shipments) up to a value of
$1,500, TMP (temporary exports), and RPL (servicing and replacement parts).
License Exceptions TMP and RPL also are available for items controlled under new
ECCN 1A607. In addition, special provisions in License Exception TMP (see Sec.
740.9(a)(11) of the EAR) and License Exception BAG (baggage) (see Sec. 740.14(h)
of the EAR), as amended by this final rule, authorize exports, reexports, or
in-country transfers of certain protection ``equipment'' described in ECCN
1A607.f. BIS believes that the restrictions that apply to the use of license
exceptions for the items in the new ``600 series'' ECCNs represents an overall
reduction from the level of restrictions that previously applied to such items
on the USML. This is particularly true with respect to exports of such items to
NATO members and multiple-regime member countries. Alignment With the Wassenaar
Arrangement Munitions List Since the beginning of ECR, the Administration has
stated that the reforms will be consistent with the United States' obligations
to the multilateral export control regimes. Accordingly, the Administration has,
in this final rule, exercised its national discretion to implement, clarify,
and, to the extent feasible, align its controls with those of the regimes. In
this rule, new ECCNs 1A607 and 1C607 implement, to the extent possible, the
controls in WAML Category 7; new ECCNs 1B607 and 6B619 implement, to the extent
possible, the controls in WAML Category 18 for production ``equipment;'' new
ECCNs 1D607 and 6D619 implement, to the extent possible, the controls in WAML
[[Page 49525]] Category 21 for ``software;'' and new ECCNs 1E607 and 6E619
implement, to the extent possible, the controls in WAML Category 22 for
``technology.'' Export Administration Act Although the Export Administration Act
expired on August 20, 2001, the President, through Executive Order 13222 of
August 17, 2001, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783 (2002), as amended by Executive Order
13637 of March 8, 2013, 78 FR 16129 (March 13, 2013), and as extended by the
Notice of August 7, 2015 (80 FR 48233 (Aug. 11, 2015), has continued the Export
Administration Regulations in effect under the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.). BIS continues to carry out the provisions
of the Export Administration Act, as appropriate and to the extent permitted by
law, pursuant to Executive Order 13222 as amended by Executive Order 13637.
Rulemaking Requirements 1. Executive Orders 13563 and 12866 direct agencies to
assess all costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives and, if
regulation is necessary, to select regulatory approaches that maximize net
benefits (including potential economic, environmental, public health and safety
effects, distribute impacts, and equity). Executive Order 13563 emphasizes the
importance of quantifying both costs and benefits, of reducing costs, of
harmonizing rules, and of promoting flexibility. This rule has been designated a
``significant regulatory action,'' although not economically significant, under
Executive Order 12866. Accordingly, the rule has been reviewed by the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB). 2. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no
person is required to respond to, nor is any person subject to a penalty for
failure to comply with, a collection of information, subject to the requirements
of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) (PRA), unless
that collection of information displays a currently valid OMB control number.
This final rule affects the following approved collections: Simplified Network
Application Processing System (control number 0694-0088), which includes, among
other things, license applications; License Exceptions and Exclusions
(0694-0137); recordkeeping (0694-0096); export clearance (0694-0122); and the
Automated Export System (0607-0152). The discussion, below, is intended to
provide a general overview of possible burden changes as a result of all the ECR
rules published by BIS, and not just this final rule, which affects items
previously controlled under USML Category XIV or XVIII. No changes in burden for
any of these collections is anticipated at this time, other than as indicated in
the discussion, below. As stated in the proposed rule published on July 15, 2011
(76 FR 41958) (the ``July 15 proposed rule''), BIS initially estimated that the
combined effect of all rules to be published, adding items to the EAR that would
be removed from the ITAR as part of the Administration's Export Control Reform
Initiative, would increase the number of license applications to be submitted to
BIS by approximately 16,000 annually, resulting in an increase in burden hours
of 5,067 (16,000 transactions at 17 minutes each) under control number
0694-0088. As the review of the USML has progressed, the interagency group has
gained more specific information about the number of items that would come under
BIS jurisdiction and whether those items would be eligible for export under
license exception. As of June 21, 2012, BIS revised its estimate to reflect an
increase in license applications of 30,000 annually, resulting in an increase in
burden hours of 8,500 (30,000 transactions at 17 minutes each) under control
number 0694-0088. BIS continues to believe that its revised estimate is
accurate. Notwithstanding this increase in license applications under the EAR,
the net burden that U.S. export controls impose on U.S. exporters is expected to
go down, as described below, as a result of the transfer of less sensitive
military items to the jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce, under the EAR,
and the application of the license exceptions and other provisions in the EAR
that are described in this final rule. As implemented by this rule, certain
dissemination, detection and protection ``equipment'' and related articles
currently controlled under USML Category XIV in the ITAR and certain tooling,
production ``equipment,'' test and evaluation ``equipment,'' test models and
related articles currently controlled under USML Category XVIII of the ITAR are
now subject to the licensing jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce under
the EAR and its CCL, and also are eligible for certain license exceptions,
including License Exception STA. For example, items controlled under new ECCN
1A607, 1B607, 1C607, 1D607, 1E607, 6B619, 6D619, or 6E619 are now eligible under
certain provisions of License Exception STA and do not need a determination of
eligibility as described in Sec. 740.20(g) of the EAR. BIS believes that the
increased use of License Exception STA resulting from the combined effect of all
rules to be published, adding items to the EAR that would be removed from the
ITAR as part of the Administration's Export Control Reform Initiative, would
increase the burden associated with control number 0694-0137 by about 23,858
hours (20,450 transactions at 1 hour and 10 minutes each). BIS expects that this
increase in burden hours under the EAR will be more than offset by a reduction
in the burden hours associated with currently approved collections related to
the ITAR. With few exceptions, most exports of the dissemination, detection and
protection ``equipment'' and related articles and the tooling, production
``equipment,'' test and evaluation ``equipment,'' test models and related
articles that this rule adds to the CCL previously required State Department
authorization, even when destined to NATO member states and other close allies.
In addition, the exports of ``technology'' necessary to produce such items in
the inventories of the United States and its NATO and other close allies
previously required State Department authorization. Under the EAR, as
implemented by this rule, such ``technology'' is now eligible for export to NATO
member states and other close allies under License Exception STA, unless
otherwise specifically excluded. The anticipated reduction in burden hours will
particularly impact exporters of ``parts'' and ``components'' that are no longer
be subject to the ITAR, because, with few exceptions, the ITAR exempt from
license requirements only exports to Canada. Most exports of such ``parts'' and
``components,'' even when destined to NATO and other close allies, previously
required State Department authorization. Under the EAR, as implemented by this
rule, a small number of low-level ``parts'' and ``components'' do not require a
license to most destinations, while most other ``parts'' and ``components''
identified under the new ``600 series'' ECCNs are eligible for export to NATO
and other close allies under License Exception STA. Use of License Exception STA
imposes a paperwork and compliance burden because, for example, exporters must
furnish information about the item that is being exported to the consignee and
obtain from the consignee an acknowledgement and commitment to comply with the
requirements of the EAR. However, the Administration believes that complying
with the requirements of STA is likely to be less [[Page 49526]] burdensome than
applying for licenses. For example, under License Exception STA, a single
consignee statement can apply to an unlimited number of products, need not have
an expiration date and need not be submitted to the government in advance for
approval. Suppliers with regular customers can tailor a single statement and
assurance to match their business relationship, rather than applying repeatedly
for licenses with every purchase order, to supply allied and, in some cases,
U.S. forces with routine replacement parts and components. Even in situations in
which a license is required under the EAR, the burden likely will be reduced,
compared to the previous license requirement under the ITAR. In particular,
license applications for exports of ``technology'' controlled by ECCN 1E607 or
6E619 are likely to be less complex and burdensome than the authorizations
required to export ITAR-controlled ``technology,'' i.e., Manufacturing License
Agreements and Technical Assistance Agreements. 3. This rule does not contain
policies with Federalism implications as that term is defined under E.O. 13132.
4. The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), as amended by the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (SBREFA), 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.,
generally requires an agency to prepare an initial regulatory flexibility
analysis (IRFA) for any rule subject to the notice and comment rulemaking
requirements under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) or any other
statute, unless the agency certifies that the rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Under section 605(b)
of the RFA, however, if the head of an agency certifies that a rule will not
have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities, the RFA
does not require the agency to prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis.
Accordingly, pursuant to section 605(b), the Chief Counsel for Regulation,
Department of Commerce, has certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small
Business Administration, that this proposed rule, if promulgated, will not have
a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rationale
for this certification is as follows. Number of Small Entities Although BIS does
not collect data on the size of entities that apply for, and are issued, export
licenses and is, therefore, unable to estimate the exact number of small
entities--as defined by the Small Business Administration's regulations
implementing the RFA--BIS acknowledges that some small entities may be affected
by this proposed rule. Economic Impact The amendments set forth in this rule are
part of the Administration's ECR initiative, which seeks to revise the USML to
be a positive control list--one that does not use generic, catch-all control
text to describe items subject to the ITAR--and to move some items that the
President has determined no longer warrant control under the ITAR to control
under the EAR and its CCL. Such items, along with certain military items
currently identified on the CCL (most of which are identified on the WAML), will
be controlled under new ``600 series'' ECCNs on the CCL. In addition, certain
other items currently on the CCL will move from existing ECCNs to the new ``600
series'' ECCNs. This rule addresses certain dissemination, detection and
protection ``equipment'' and related articles previously enumerated or otherwise
described in USML Category XIV (Toxicological Agents, Including Chemical Agents,
Biological Agents, and Associated Equipment) and certain tooling, production
``equipment,'' test and evaluation ``equipment,'' test models and related
articles previously enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XVIII
(Directed Energy Weapons). Most toxicological agents (i.e., chemical and
biological agents) and associated equipment and all Directed Energy Weapons
(DEWs) systems ``specially designed'' or modified for military applications,
equipment ``specially designed'' or modified to detect, identify or defend
against such systems, and ``specially designed'' ``parts,'' ``components,''
``accessories'' and ``attachments'' for such systems or equipment remain on the
USML. However, many other ``parts'' and ``components'' are now subject to the
EAR (as items described in ECCN 1A607.x, 1B607.x, or 6B619.x), unless
specifically enumerated or otherwise described on the USML. Many of these
``parts'' and ``components'' are more likely, than the USML articles described
above, to be produced by small businesses. In addition, officials of the
Department of State have informed BIS that license applications for such
``parts'' and ``components'' represent a high percentage of the license
applications for USML articles reviewed by that department. Changing the
jurisdictional status of certain Category XIV and Category XVIII items will
reduce the burden on small entities (and other entities as well) through: (i)
Elimination of some license requirements; (ii) greater availability of license
exceptions; (iii) simpler license application procedures; and (iv) reduced or
eliminated registration fees. Moreover, ``parts'' and ``components'' that are
controlled under the ITAR remain under ITAR control when incorporated into
foreign-made items, regardless of the significance or insignificance of the
item. This discourages foreign buyers from incorporating such U.S. content. The
availability of de minimis treatment under the EAR, for those items that are no
longer controlled under the ITAR, may reduce the disincentive for foreign
manufacturers to purchase U.S.-origin ``parts'' and ``components,'' a
development that potentially would mean greater sales for U.S. suppliers,
including small entities. Many exports and reexports of the Category XIV or
Category XVIII articles that are added to the CCL by this rule (particularly,
the ``parts'' and ``components'' that are controlled under new ECCN 1A607.x,
1B607.x, or 6B619.x) are now eligible for license exceptions that apply to
exports to U.S. Government agencies, exports of ``parts'' and ``components'' for
use as replacement parts, temporary exports and limited value exports (for ECCN
1B607 and 6B619 items, only), as well as License Exception STA, thereby reducing
the number of licenses that exporters will need to obtain for these items.
License exceptions under the EAR allow suppliers to send routine replacement
parts and low level parts to NATO and other close allies and export control
regime partners for use by those governments and for use by contractors building
equipment for those governments or for the U.S. Government without having to
obtain export licenses. Under License Exception STA, the exporter needs to
furnish information about the item being exported to the consignee and obtain a
statement from the consignee that, among other things, will commit the consignee
to comply with the EAR and other applicable U.S. laws. Because such statements
and obligations can apply to an unlimited number of transactions and have no
expiration date, they will result in a net reduction in burden on transactions
routinely approved by the government through the license application process
that the License Exception STA statements would replace. Even for exports and
reexports for which a license will be required, the process for obtaining a
license is simpler and less costly under the EAR. When a USML Category XIV or
Category [[Page 49527]] XVIII article is moved to the CCL, the number of
destinations for which a license is required remains unchanged. However, the
burden on the license applicant decreases because the licensing procedure for
CCL items is simpler and more flexible than the licensing procedure for USML
articles. Under the USML licensing procedure, an applicant must include a
purchase order or contract with its application. There is no such requirement
under the CCL licensing procedure. This difference gives the CCL applicant at
least two advantages. First, the applicant has a way to determine whether the
U.S. Government will authorize the transaction before it enters into potentially
lengthy, complex and expensive sales presentations or contract negotiations.
Under the USML procedure, the applicant must caveat all sales presentations with
a reference to the need for government approval, and is more likely to engage in
substantial effort and expense only to find that the government will reject the
application. Second, a CCL license applicant need not limit its application to
the quantity or value of one purchase order or contract. It may apply for a
license to cover all of its expected exports or reexports to a specified
consignee over the life of a license (normally four years, but maybe longer if
circumstances warrant a longer period), thus reducing the total number of
licenses for which the applicant must apply. In addition, many applicants
exporting or reexporting items that this rule transfers from the USML to the CCL
will realize cost savings through the elimination of some or all registration
fees assessed under the USML's licensing procedure. Currently, USML applicants
must pay to use the USML licensing procedure even if they never actually are
authorized to export. Registration fees for manufacturers and exporters of
articles on the USML start at $2,250 per year, increase to $2,750 for
organizations applying for one to ten licenses per year and further increase to
$2,750 plus $250 per license application (subject to a maximum of three percent
of total application value) for those who need to apply for more than ten
licenses per year. Conversely, there are no registration or application
processing fees for applications to export items listed on the CCL. Entities who
applied for licenses from the Department of State, for the Category XIV or
Category XVIII items subject to this rulemaking that are removed from the USML
and added to the CCL, will find their registration fees reduced if the number of
USML licenses those entities need declines. If an entity's entire product line
moves to the CCL, its ITAR registration and registration fee requirement will be
eliminated. Conclusion BIS expects that the changes to the EAR implemented by
this rule will have a positive effect on all affected entities, including small
entities. While BIS acknowledges that this rule may have some cost impacts on
small (and other) entities, those costs are more than offset by the benefits to
the entities from the licensing procedures under the EAR, which are much less
costly and less time consuming than the procedures under the ITAR. As noted
above, any new burdens created by this rule will be offset by a reduction in the
number of items that will require a license, increased opportunities for use of
license exceptions for exports to certain countries, simpler export license
applications, reduced or eliminated registration fees and application of a de
minimis threshold for foreign-made items incorporating U.S.- origin parts and
components, all of which will reduce the incentive for foreign buyers to design
out or avoid U.S.-origin content. Accordingly, the Chief Counsel for Regulation,
Department of Commerce, has certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small
Business Administration, that this rule, if implemented, would not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
Accordingly, an initial regulatory flexibility analysis is not required, and
none has been prepared. List of Subjects 15 CFR Part 740 Administrative practice
and procedure, Exports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 15 CFR Part
774 Exports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons stated in
the preamble, parts 740 and 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR
parts 730-774) are amended as follows: PART 740--[AMENDED] 0 1. The authority
citation for 15 CFR part 740 continues to read as follows: Authority: 50 U.S.C.
app. 2401 et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.; 22 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.; E.O. 13026,
61 FR 58767, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 228; E.O. 13222, 66 FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001
Comp., p. 783; Notice of August 7, 2015, 80 FR 48233 (August 11, 2015). 0 2.
Section 740.9 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(11) to read as follows: Sec.
740.9 Temporary imports, exports, reexports, and transfers (in- country) (TMP).
* * * * * (a) * * * (11) Personal protective ``equipment'' classified under ECCN
1A613.c or .d and individual protection ``equipment'' classified under ECCN
1A607.f--(i) Temporary exports, reexports, or in-country transfers to countries
not identified in Country Group D:5. U.S. persons may temporarily export or
reexport one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include
one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological
agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one
additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to countries not
identified in Country Group D:5, provided that: (A) The items are with the U.S.
person's baggage or effects, whether accompanied or unaccompanied (but not
mailed); and (B) The items are for that U.S. person's exclusive use and not for
transfer of ownership unless reexported or transferred (in-country) to another
U.S. person. (ii) Temporary exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to
countries identified in Country Group D:5--(A) Iraq. U.S. persons may
temporarily export or reexport one set of body armor classified under ECCN
1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set
of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f
(which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x)
to Iraq, for personal use, provided that the requirements in paragraph
(a)(11)(i) of this section are met. In addition, the U.S. person must be
affiliated with the U.S. Government and traveling on official business or
traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract, or the U.S. person must be
traveling to Iraq under a direct authorization by the Government of Iraq and
engaging in activities for, on behalf of, or at the request of, the Government
of Iraq. Documentation regarding direct authorization from the Government of
Iraq shall include an English translation. (B) Other countries in Country Group
D:5. U.S. persons may temporarily export or reexport one set of body armor
classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under
ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological agent protective [[Page
49528]] gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one additional
filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to countries in Country Group D:5
(except Iraq), for personal use, provided that the requirements in paragraph
(a)(11)(i) of this section are met, and the U.S. person is affiliated with the
U.S. Government traveling on official business or is traveling in support of a
U.S. Government contract. (iii) Items exported, reexported, or transferred
(in-country) under this paragraph (a)(11), if not consumed or destroyed in the
normal course of authorized temporary use abroad, must be returned to the United
States or other country from which the items were so transferred as soon as
practicable but no later than four years after the date of export, reexport or
transfer (in-country). * * * * * 0 3. Section 740.14 is amended by revising
paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) to read as follows: Sec. 740.14 Baggage (BAG). * * * *
* (h) Special provisions: personal protective ``equipment'' classified under
ECCN 1A613.c or .d and individual protection ``equipment'' classified under ECCN
1A607.f--(1) Exports, reexports, or in-country transfers to countries not
identified in Country Group D:5. U.S. persons may export, reexport, or transfer
(in-country) one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may
include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or
biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may
include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to
countries not identified in Country Group D:5, provided that: (i) The items are
with the U.S. person's baggage or effects, whether accompanied or unaccompanied
(but not mailed); and (ii) The items are for that person's exclusive use and not
for transfer of ownership unless reexported or transferred (in-country) to
another U.S. person. (2) Exports, reexports, or in-country transfers to
countries identified in Country Group D:5--(i) Iraq. U.S. persons may export,
reexport, or transfer (in-country) one set of body armor classified under ECCN
1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set
of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f
(which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x)
to Iraq, for personal use, provided that the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of
this section are met. In addition, the U.S. person must be affiliated with the
U.S. Government and traveling on official business or traveling in support of a
U.S. Government contract, or the U.S. person must be traveling to Iraq under a
direct authorization by the Government of Iraq and engaging in activities for,
on behalf of, or at the request of, the Government of Iraq. Documentation
regarding direct authorization from the Government of Iraq shall include an
English translation. (ii) Other countries in Country Group D:5. U.S. persons may
export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) one set of body armor classified
under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c)
or one set of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN
1A607.f (which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN
1A607.x) to countries in Country Group D:5 (except Iraq), for personal use,
provided that the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are met, and
the U.S. person is affiliated with the U.S. Government traveling on official
business or is traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract. * * * * *
PART 774--[AMENDED] 0 4. The authority citation for part 774 continues to read
as follows: Authority: 50 U.S.C. app. 2401 et seq.; 50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.; 10
U.S.C. 7420; 10 U.S.C. 7430(e); 22 U.S.C. 287c, 22 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.; 22
U.S.C. 6004; 30 U.S.C. 185(s), 185(u); 42 U.S.C. 2139a; 42 U.S.C. 6212; 43
U.S.C. 1354; 15 U.S.C. 1824a; 50 U.S.C. app. 5; 22 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.; 22
U.S.C. 7210; E.O. 13026, 61 FR 58767, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 228; E.O. 13222, 66
FR 44025, 3 CFR, 2001 Comp., p. 783; Notice of August 7, 2015, 80 FR 48233
(August 11, 2015). 0 5. In Supplement No. 1 to part 774 (the Commerce Control
List), Category 1--Special Materials and Related Equipment, Chemicals,
``Microorganisms,'' and ``Toxins,'' add ECCN 1A607 between ECCNs 1A290 and 1A613
to read as follows: Supplement No. 1 to Part 774--the Commerce Control List * *
* * * 1A607 Military dissemination ``equipment'' for riot control agents,
military detection and protection ``equipment'' for toxicological agents
(including chemical, biological, and riot control agents), and related
commodities (see List of Items Controlled). License Requirements Reason for
Control: NS, RS, AT, UN Country chart (see Supp. Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738)
NS applies to entire entry................ NS Column 1 RS applies to entire
entry................ RS Column 1 AT applies to entire entry................ AT
Column 1 UN applies to entire entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN
controls List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all
license exceptions) LVS: N/A GBS: N/A CIV: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not
be used for any item in 1A607. List of Items Controlled Related Controls: (1)
Vaccines identified in ECCN 1C991 are not controlled by this ECCN. (2) See 22
CFR 121.1 (USML), Category XIV(h), for vaccines that are subject to the ITAR.
(3) Protection and detection equipment and related items identified in ECCN
1A004, 1A995, or 2B351 are not controlled by this ECCN. (4) See 22 CFR 121.1
(USML), Category XIV(f), for dissemination, detection and protection equipment
that is subject to the ITAR. (5) See ECCN 0A919 for ``military commodities''
located and produced outside the United States that incorporate more than a de
minimis amount of US-origin ``600 series'' controlled content. Related
Definitions: N/A Items: a. through d. [Reserved] e. ``Equipment'' ``specially
designed'' for military use and for the dissemination of any of the riot control
agents controlled in ECCN 1C607.a. f. Protection ``equipment'' (including air
conditioning units, protective coatings, and protective clothing): f.1. Not
controlled by USML Category XIV(f); and f.2. ``Specially designed'' for military
use and for defense against: f.2.1. Materials specified by USML Category XIV (a)
or (b); or f.2.2. Riot control agents controlled in 1C607.a. g. Decontamination
``equipment'': g.1. Not controlled by USML Category XIV(f); and g.2. ``Specially
designed'' for military use and for decontamination of objects contaminated with
materials controlled by USML Category XIV(a) or (b). h. ``Equipment'': h.1. Not
controlled by USML Category XIV(f); and h.2. ``Specially designed'' for military
use and for the detection or identification of: h.2.1. Materials specified by
USML Category XIV(a) or (b); or h.2.2. Riot control agents controlled by ECCN
1C607.a. [[Page 49529]] i. [Reserved] j. ``Equipment'' ``specially designed''
to: j.1. Interface with a detector, shelter, vehicle, vessel, or aircraft
controlled by the USML or a ``600 series'' ECCN; and j.2. Collect and process
samples of articles controlled in USML Category XIV(a) or (b). k. Medical
countermeasures that are ``specially designed'' for military use (including pre-
and post-treatments, antidotes, and medical diagnostics) and ``specially
designed'' to counter chemical agents controlled by the USML Category XIV(a).
Note: Examples of ``equipment'' controlled by this entry are barrier and
non-barrier creams and filled autoinjectors (e.g., combopens where one injector
contains 2-PAM and the other atropine) if ``specially designed'' to counter such
agents. l. through w. [Reserved] x. ``Parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,''
and ``attachments'' that are ``specially designed'' for a commodity controlled
by ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, .h, or .j or for a defense article controlled by USML
Category XIV(f) and that are not enumerated or otherwise described elsewhere in
the USML. 0 6. In Supplement No. 1 to part 774 (the Commerce Control List),
Category 1--Special Materials and Related Equipment, Chemicals,
``Microorganisms,'' and ``Toxins,'' add ECCN 1B607 between ECCNs 1B234 and 1B608
to read as follows: 1B607 Military test, inspection, and production
``equipment'' and related commodities ``specially designed'' for the
``development,'' ``production,'' repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of
commodities identified in ECCN 1A607 or 1C607, or defense articles enumerated or
otherwise described in USML Category XIV (see List of Items Controlled). License
Requirements Reason for Control: NS, RS, AT, UN Country chart (see Supp.
Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738) NS applies to entire entry................ NS
Column 1 RS applies to entire entry................ RS Column 1 AT applies to
entire entry................ AT Column 1 UN applies to entire
entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN controls List Based License
Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions) LVS: $1500
GBS: N/A CIV: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA: Paragraph (c)(2) of License
Exception STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in
1B607. List of Items Controlled Related Controls: (1) See ECCN 2B350 for
controls on certain incinerators. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for ``military
commodities'' located and produced outside the United States that incorporate
more than a de minimis amount of US-origin ``600 series'' controlled content.
Related Definitions: N/A Items: a. ``Equipment'' ``specially designed'' for the
destruction of the chemical agents controlled by USML Category XIV(a). Note to
1B607.a: ECCN 1B607.a includes controls over facilities ``specially designed''
for destruction operations. This paragraph .a does not control incinerators and
``specially designed'' handling facilities or ``specially designed'' waste
supply systems therefor. b. Test facilities and ``equipment'' ``specially
designed'' for military certification, qualification, or testing of commodities
controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f, .g, .h, or .j or by USML Category XIV(f), except
for XIV(f)(1). c. Tooling and ``equipment'' ``specially designed'' for the
``development,'' ``production,'' repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of
commodities controlled by ECCN 1A607.e, .f .g, .h, or .j or USML Category
XIV(f). d. through w. [RESERVED] x. ``Parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,''
and ``attachments'' that are ``specially designed'' for a commodity controlled
by ECCN 1B607.b or .c, or for a defense article controlled by USML Category
XIV(f), and that are not enumerated or otherwise described elsewhere in the
USML. 0 7. In Supplement No. 1 to part 774 (the Commerce Control List), Category
1--Special Materials and Related Equipment, Chemicals, ``Microorganisms,'' and
``Toxins,'' add a new ECCN 1C607 between ECCNs 1C395 and 1C608 to read as
follows: 1C607 Tear Gases, Riot Control Agents and materials for the detection
and decontamination of chemical warfare agents (see List of Items Controlled).
License Requirements Reason for Control: NS, RS, AT, UN Country chart (see Supp.
Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738) NS applies to entire entry, except NS Column 1
1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12, and .a.14. RS applies to entire entry................
RS Column 1 AT applies to entire entry................ AT Column 1 UN applies to
entire entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN controls List Based
License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions)
LVS: N/A GBS: N/A CIV: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA: Paragraph (c)(2) of
License Exception STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any
item in 1C607. List of Items Controlled Related Controls: (1) See ECCN 1A984 for
controls on other riot control agents. (2) See 22 CFR 121.1 (USML), Category
XIV(b), for modified biological agents and biologically derived substances that
are subject to the ITAR. (3) See 22 CFR 121.1 (USML), Category XIV(g), for ITAR
controls on antibodies, recombinant protective antigens, polynucleotides,
biopolymers or biocatalysts (including the expression vectors, viruses,
plasmids, or cultures of specific cells used to produce them) that are
``specially designed'' for use with articles controlled under USML Category
XIV(f). (4) See ECCN 0A919 for ``military commodities'' located and produced
outside the United States that incorporate more than a de minimis amount of US-
origin ``600 series'' controlled content. Related Definitions: N/A Items: a.
Tear gases and riot control agents including: a.1. CA (Bromobenzyl cyanide) (CAS
5798-79-8); a.2. CS (o-Chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile or o-
Chlorobenzalmalononitrile) (CAS 2698-41-1); a.3. CN (Phenylacyl chloride or
w-Chloroacetophenone) (CAS 532- 27-4); a.4. CR (Dibenz-(b,f)-1,4-oxazephine)
(CAS 257-07-8); a.5. Adamsite (Diphenylamine chloroarsine or DM) (CAS 578-94-9);
a.6. N-Nonanoylmorpholine, (MPA) (CAS 5299-64-9); a.7. Dibromodimethyl ether
(CAS 4497-29-4); a.8. Dichlorodimethyl ether (ClCi) (CAS 542-88-1); a.9.
Ethyldibromoarsine (CAS 683-43-2); a.10. Bromo acetone (CAS 598-31-2); a.11.
Bromo methylethylketone (CAS 816-40-0); a.12. Iodo acetone (CAS 3019-04-3);
a.13. Phenylcarbylamine chloride (CAS 622-44-6); a.14. Ethyl iodoacetate (CAS
623-48-3); Note to 1C607.a: ECCN 1C607.a. does not control the following:
formulations containing 1% or less of CN or CS; individually packaged tear gases
or riot control agents for personal self-defense purposes that are controlled by
ECCN 1A984; or active constituent chemicals, and combinations thereof,
identified and packaged for food production or medical purposes. b.
``Biopolymers,'' not controlled by USML Category XIV(g) ``specially designed''
or processed for the detection or identification of chemical warfare agents
specified by USML Category XIV(a), and the cultures of specific cells used to
produce them. c. ``Biocatalysts,'' and biological systems therefor, not
controlled by USML Category XIV(g) ``specially designed'' for the
decontamination or degradation of chemical warfare agents controlled in USML
Category XIV (a), as follows: [[Page 49530]] c.1. ``Biocatalysts'' ``specially
designed'' for the decontamination or degradation of chemical warfare agents
controlled in USML Category XIV(a) resulting from directed laboratory selection
or genetic manipulation of biological systems; c.2. Biological systems
containing the genetic information specific to the production of
``biocatalysts'' specified by 1C607.c.1, as follows: c.2.a. ``Expression
vectors;'' c.2.b. Viruses; or c.2.c. Cultures of cells. Note to 1C607.b and .c:
The cultures of cells and biological systems are exclusive and these sub-items
do not apply to cells or biological systems for civil purposes, such as
agricultural, pharmaceutical, medical, veterinary, environmental, waste
management, or in the food industry. d. Chemical mixtures not controlled by USML
Category XIV(f) ``specially designed'' for military use for the decontamination
of objects contaminated with materials specified by USML Category XIV(a) or (b).
0 8. In Supplement No. 1 to part 774 (the Commerce Control List), Category
1--Special Materials and Related Equipment, Chemicals, ``Microorganisms,'' and
``Toxins,'' add ECCN 1D607 between ECCNs 1D390 and 1D608 to read as follows:
1D607 ``Software'' ``specially designed'' for the ``development,''
``production,'' operation, or maintenance of items controlled by 1A607, 1B607 or
1C607 (see List of Items Controlled). License Requirements Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN Country chart (see Supp. Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738) NS applies
to entire entry, except NS Column 1 ``software'' for 1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12,
and .a.14. RS applies to entire entry................ RS Column 1 AT applies to
entire entry................ AT Column 1 UN applies to entire
entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN controls List Based License
Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all license exceptions) CIV: N/A
TSR: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA: Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception
STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in 1D607. List
of Items Controlled Related Controls: (1) ``Software'' directly related to
articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XIV is subject to
the ITAR (see 22 CFR Sec. 121.1, Category XIV(m)). ``Software'' controlled by
USML Category XIV(m) includes ``software'' directly related to any equipment
containing reagents, algorithms, coefficients, software, libraries, spectral
databases, or alarm set point levels developed under U.S. Department of Defense
contract or funding for the detection, identification, warning or monitoring of
items controlled in paragraphs (a) or (b) of USML Category XIV, or for chemical
or biological agents specified by U.S. Department of Defense funding or
contract. (2) See ECCN 0A919 for ``military commodities'' located and produced
outside the United States that incorporate more than a de minimis amount of
US-origin ``600 series'' controlled content. Related Definitions: N/A Items: a.
``Software'' ``specially designed'' for the ``development,'' ``production,''
operation, or maintenance of commodities controlled by ECCN 1A607, 1B607, or
1C607. b. [RESERVED] 0 9. In Supplement No. 1 to part 774 (the Commerce Control
List), Category 1--Special Materials and Related Equipment, Chemicals,
``Microorganisms,'' and ``Toxins,'' add a new ECCN 1E607 between ECCNs 1E355 and
1E608 to read as follows: 1E607 ``Technology'' ``required'' for the
``development,'' ``production,'' operation, installation, maintenance, repair,
overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled by ECCN 1A607, 1B607, 1C607, or
1D607 (see List of Items Controlled). License Requirements Reason for Control:
NS, RS, AT, UN Country chart (see Supp. Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738) NS applies
to entire entry, except NS Column 1 ``technology'' for 1C607.a.10, .a.11, .a.12,
and .a.14 and for 1D607 ``software'' therefor. RS applies to entire
entry................ RS Column 1 AT applies to entire entry................ AT
Column 1 UN applies to entire entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN
controls List Based License Exceptions (See Part 740 for a description of all
license exceptions) CIV: N/A TSR: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA: Paragraph
(c)(2) of License Exception STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used
for any item in 1E607. List of Items Controlled Related Controls: Technical data
directly related to defense articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML
Category XIV are subject to the ITAR (see 22 CFR Sec. 121.1, Category XIV(m)).
Technical data controlled by USML Category XIV(m) include technical data
directly related to any equipment containing reagents, algorithms, coefficients,
software, libraries, spectral databases, or alarm set point levels developed
under U.S. Department of Defense contract or funding for the detection,
identification, warning or monitoring of items controlled in paragraphs (a) or
(b) of USML Category XIV, or for chemical or biological agents specified by U.S.
Department of Defense funding or contract. Related Definitions: N/A Items: a.
``Technology'' ``required'' for the ``development,'' ``production,'' operation,
installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of items controlled
by ECCN 1A607, 1B607, 1C607 or 1D607. Note to 1E607.a: ECCN 1E607.a includes
``technology'' ``required'' exclusively for the incorporation of
``biocatalysts'' controlled by ECCN 1C607.c.1 into military carrier substances
or military material. b. [RESERVED] 0 10. In Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 (the
Commerce Control List), Category 6--Sensors and Lasers,'' add a new ECCN 6B619
between ECCNs 6B108 and 6B995 to read as follows: 6B619 Test, inspection, and
production ``equipment'' and related commodities ``specially designed'' for the
``development,'' ``production,'' repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of
commodities enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XVIII (see List
of Items Controlled) License Requirements Reason for Control: NS, RS, AT, UN
Country chart (see Supp. Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738) NS applies to entire
entry................ NS Column 1 RS applies to entire entry................ RS
Column 1 AT applies to entire entry................ AT Column 1 UN applies to
entire entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN controls License
Exceptions LVS: $1500 GBS: N/A CIV: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA:
Paragraph (c)(2) of License Exception STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not
be used for any item in 6B619. List of Items Controlled Related Controls:
``Parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,'' ``attachments,'' and associated
systems or ``equipment'' ``specially designed'' for defense articles enumerated
or otherwise described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of USML Category XVIII are
subject to the ITAR (see 22 CFR 121.1, Category XVIII(e)). [[Page 49531]]
Related Definitions: N/A Items: a. Tooling, templates, jigs, mandrels, molds,
dies, fixtures, alignment mechanisms, and test ``equipment'' not enumerated or
otherwise described in USML Category XVIII and not elsewhere specified on the
USML that are ``specially designed'' for the ``development,'' ``production,''
repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of commodities controlled by USML Category
XVIII. b. through w. [Reserved] x. ``Parts,'' ``components,'' ``accessories,''
and ``attachments'' ``specially designed'' for a commodity subject to control
under paragraph .a of this ECCN and not enumerated or otherwise described in
USML Category XVIII and not elsewhere specified on the USML. 0 11. In Supplement
No. 1 to Part 774 (the Commerce Control List), Category 6--Sensors and Lasers,''
add a new ECCN 6D619 between ECCNs 6D201 and 6D991 to read as follows: 6D619
``Software'' ``specially designed'' for the ``development,'' ``production,''
operation or maintenance of commodities controlled by 6B619. License
Requirements Reason for Control: NS, RS, AT, UN Country chart (see Supp.
Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738) NS applies to entire entry................ NS
Column 1 RS applies to entire entry................ RS Column 1 AT applies to
entire entry................ AT Column 1 UN applies to entire
entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN controls License Exceptions CIV:
N/A TSR: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA: Paragraph (c)(2) of License
Exception STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in
6D619. List of Items Controlled Related Controls: ``Software'' directly related
to articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XVIII is subject
to the ITAR (See 22 CFR 121.1, Category XVIII(f)). Related Definitions: N/A
Items: The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading. 0 12. In
Supplement No. 1 to Part 774 (the Commerce Control List), Category 6--Sensors
and Lasers,'' add ECCN 6E619 between ECCNs 6E202 and 6E990 to read as follows:
6E619 ``Technology'' ``required'' for the ``development,'' ``production,''
operation, installation, maintenance, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of
commodities controlled by 6B619 or ``software'' controlled by 6D619. License
Requirements Reason for Control: NS, RS, AT, UN Country chart (see Supp.
Control(s) No. 1 to Part 738) NS applies to entire entry................ NS
Column 1 RS applies to entire entry................ RS Column 1 AT applies to
entire entry................ AT Column 1 UN applies to entire
entry................ See Sec. 746.1(b) for UN controls License Exceptions CIV:
N/A TSR: N/A Special Conditions for STA STA: Paragraph (c)(2) of License
Exception STA (Sec. 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR) may not be used for any item in
6E619. List of Items Controlled Related Controls: Technical data directly
related to articles enumerated or otherwise described in USML Category XVIII are
subject to the ITAR (See 22 CFR 121.1, Category XVIII(f)). Related Definitions:
N/A Items: The list of items controlled is contained in the ECCN heading. Kevin
J. Wolf, Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. [FR Doc. 2016-17506
Filed 7-27-16; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510-33-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             960 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           February 19, 2001, Monday

FOOTBALL: I'LL HAVE TO REID ALL ABOUT IT;
 KEEPER CHRIS HAD A REAL BLINDER AGAINST HIS OLD MATES - AND TV CAMERAS MIST IT

BYLINE: John Docherty

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1056 words


STIRLING 2

HIBERNIAN 3

CHRIS REID gave one of his best displays of goalkeeping but still couldn't stop
his old club taking their place in the quarter-finals.

It's a shame Reid will never be able to scrutinise his heroics with any sense of
accuracy - even though "highlights" of the five-goal thriller were shown on TV.

The fog saw, if that's the right word, to that.

Referee John Rowbotham should have called a halt in the second half when the
scoreline was balanced at 2-2.

It was a real pea-souper at that stage but he elected to carry on and the SPL
hot-shots held their nerve to go through thanks to a 78th-minute winner from sub
Tam McManus.

So, another victory for a Hibs side who are fighting it out with Rangers to join
champions-elect Celtic in the Champions League next season.

But the ultimate losers were the supporters who, for large chunks of the match,
did not have a clue what was going on.

Reid, who was understudy at Easter Road to the likes of Andy Goram, Jim Leighton
and the eccentric veteran John Burridge, admitted it was a bizzare match to play
in.

Conditions became so bad he didn't even know Stirling had been awarded the
penalty that made it 2-2 after Hibs' skipper Franck Sauzee had brought down John
Millar in the 53rd minute.

And if the weather wasn't enough of a problem, the Second Division side had to
play for 80 minutes with 10 men following the dismissal of defender Kevin
Gaughan.

Reid, who pulled off a string of wonder saves, said: "Obviously, we are all
disappointed. We showed a lot of spirit after going down to 10 men so early on.

"We scored a great goal to start off with and I thought we played really well.

"Unfortunately, the full-time legs of Hibs were the difference towards the end.

"It was probably one of the worst games vision-wise that I have played in.

"I couldn't see the other end and I felt sorry for the supporters behind the
goal - they didn't get their money's worth.

"The referee, however, decided to keep it going. To be honest, I think if he had
called it off at 2-2, there would have been a bit of a riot from us.

"It was just one of those things, you had to get through it and it was the same
for both teams.

"Once players got closer to my goal I could see them. It wasn't 100 per cent but
it was OK.

"I only knew we had made it 2-2 from the penalty by the reaction of our players
and the cheering of the supporters.

"The guys told me it was a good finish - well, Ally Graham did."

What the punters did see, they enjoyed.

Albion, who had been well fired up by boss Ray Stewart, stunned Hibs by taking
the lead after four minutes, on-loan Dunfermline star Chris Templeman rifling
the ball into the roof of the net from 20 yards.

That was the worst possible start for a Hibs side that had been knocked out of
the tournament by Albion in a replay at Forthbank a couple of years ago.

Six minutes later, however, Stirling were reduced to 10 men when Gaughan was
red-carded for bringing down Russell Latapy as he headed for the penalty box.

From the free-kick, just on the 18-yard line, Sauzee duly curled his effort past
the helpless Reid.

John O'Neil made it 2-1 in 26 minutes, clinically finishing off a sweet move
involving Ulrik Larsson and David Zitelli.

Then came the equaliser from the spot by Graham which gave Nick Colgan no
chance.

But just when it seemed we were heading for a replay, McManus steered his team
-mates into the last eight by drilling the ball inside Reid's left-hand post.

It was a valiant effort from Stirling. Hibs, for their part, looked slack and
sluggish in most of the things they did.

Reid was typically modest about his own role in the game.

He said: "When you are down to 10 men, you expect to be be busy but that's what
I'm there do do. I'm just disappointed we could not hold out a little longer.

"For Hibs' winning goal, I think Tam McManus tried to cross the ball but
unfortunately it came off John Millar and went in at the post.

"I think he would admit himself he didn't mean to put the ball where it ended up
but deflected goals can happen in any game.

"It would have been nice to win or even get back to Easter Road for a replay.
But now we're out I'm hoping Hibs can go all the way and lift the Cup."

Hibs midfielder O'Neil, said: "Stirling made things difficult for us but I
thought we dominated most of the play and created the better chances.

"I wouldn't use the conditions as an excuse. The conditions were acceptable,
although the referee definitely had a wee think about it.

"We had good chances but gave the ball away far too easily, especially in their
half.

"The manager was not too pleased about it and quite rightly so. On today's
performance, we are just happy to be through."

Easter Road boss Alex McLeish said: "We are in the hat and that was the
objective but we were unbelievably sloppy. I thought we were lazy all over the
pitch.

"It was a bit eerie with the fog descending on us for the entire 90 minutes and
I think that killed the atmosphere a wee bit.

"The fans didn't really get things going either.

"There was sloppiness in front of goal, lack of compusure, some fantastic
defending from Stirling and great goalkeeping by Chris Reid."

The manager was delighted for goal hero McManus, a player he had thrown on for
Ian Murray in the 65th minute in an effort to provide more spark.

McLeish said: "Perhaps we should have put Tam on earlier.

We thought he would give us more in the attacking sense - big Ian is more of a
defender and the fact we had so much of the ball was not quite suited to his
game.

"Tam rattled in a hat-trick for the Under-21s on Monday night so he was a man on
form. He's done it again and his confidence will be soaring."

Stirling boss Stewart, who felt the match should have been stopped in the second
half, said: "We took Hibs to the wire and I thought Chris Reid was the man of
the match.

"To play a team of their calibre when we were down to 10 men for 80 minutes was
tremendous for a part-time club.

"Every one of the players deserves an Oscar.

"I think the fans would have had their money's worth if they had been able to
see it.

"If the match had been called off at 2-2, I think everyone would have been
happy."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.


                             961 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 7, 2002, Thursday

TREK FANS HIT BACK AT SCOUTS IN BOOZE HUT ROW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 236 words


TREKKIES accused of trashing a Scout hut yesterday claimed the youngsters beamed
up their booze stocks.

The Scottish Science Fiction Forum, a group of fans of Star Trek and other
shows, were kicked out of the hut after claims they owed more than pounds 300 in
unpaid rent and damage caused during their meetings.

But yesterday, the group's "commanding officer" Clark Bowie, known as The
Admiral, blasted back.

He said: "They have our drink, spirits and beer. There's about pounds 400 worth.
I will pay the Scouts when they return these items."Scout area commissioner Ian
Dow claimed he found the hut in Aberdeen littered with broken glass and stinking
of cigarettes and alcohol after the Forum's meetings.

He said: "I was having to go in in the morning and try and fumigate it and get
rid of the smell before the kids arrived.

"They left such a mess. There were bottles and cans and broken glass all over.

"Neighbours complained too, and the police had to be called in after a fight."

But Mr Bowie claimed youngsters who meet at a nearby shopping centre were
responsible for the trouble.

He said: "On one occasion, they tried to get in and we refused.

"They started fighting among themselves and then they tried to riot with us."

Mr Bowie added the group had now disbanded because of the trouble.

Mr Dow said: "I would be happy with my cheque - and he can get his beer back."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.


                             963 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 6, 2001, Friday

STINK BOMBS TO STOP RIOTS

BYLINE: Mark Solomons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 171 words


MILITARY scientists are trying to develop a stink bomb powerful enough to use
for crowd control or even in warfare.

Chemists are looking for a smell so repugnant it could make large groups of
people disperse.

If successful the weapon could be used to control football hooligans or break up
riots.

The US government's Nonlethal Weapons Program wants to create a potent stench
that people will think is dangerous and run away.

"It would give an offensive capability against unruly groups, if they are
unwilling to move or are openly hostile," said Pentagon spokesman Lt Col George
Rhynedance.

It is thought the use of an odour would also minimise the risk of injury both to
the target group and those using the weapon.

Pam Dalton of the Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadephia said tests had
already found a horrible odour which caused distress to all volunteers.

"It gets to you in ways that are unimaginable. It is not something you are
likely to come across in the real world," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.


                             964 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 15, 2006

Business & Media: Business: Focus: Why the lights are dimmed in Baghdad:
Insurgency could wipe out all our work, warns UK contractor Amec. Oliver Morgan
reports

BYLINE: Oliver Morgan

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 810 words


AMEC, THE British infrastructure project manager, is warning that much of the
reconstruction work it has done in Iraq in the past 18 months could be wiped out
if funding for programmes is scaled back.

The prediction comes a week after reports indicated that the White House would
not seek additional funds for rebuilding the country once the $ 18.4bn agreed by
Congress in autumn 2003 has been spent.

In mid-term election year, the Bush administration is working on its 2007 budget
and is seeking to cut spending against the background of a growing deficit and
the costs of hurricane relief and the Iraq conflict. Reconstruction in the
country appears to be a casualty.

Bush has boasted of leaving Iraqi infrastructure in a better state than it was
under Saddam. In March 2004 he talked of rebuilding the country so that 'a free
Iraq can quickly gain economic independence'. He pointed to its oil wealth,
saying it was producing 2 million barrels a day and to pledges of international
aid.

But while a White House spokesman tellingly talked of US funding in the past
tense - the officer overseeing reconstruction for the US Army Corps of Engineers
said the US had never intended to rebuild Iraq completely. The $ 18bn was a
springboard, he said.

Now, Amec, the biggest non-US operator in Iraq, warns that there is great
uncertainty for the future.

Amec, through a joint venture with US engineer Fluor, won several major
contracts in Iraq from the Coalition Provisional Authority, the interim body
that subsequently handed over to the Iraqi government. In March 2004 the joint
venture won a $ 500m deal to rebuild electricity infrastructure and secured a $
1.1bn contract to restore its water system. Amec's share of these deals was $
240m and $ 540m respectively. It also has a smaller contract for environmental
work.

Amec says the work under the main three contracts is largely completed. It
expects to finish what it was asked to do by the end of March.

However, Amec says the work it has done may not last long. A spokesman said:
'Recently, as much as 25 per cent of work completed has been repairing
infrastructure damaged by insurgents. If funding levels are not maintained,
insurgent activity could quickly (undo) much of our work over the past 18
months.'

He added: 'Regarding future work, we would say that with uncertainty in the
region and the withdrawal of US funding, it is difficult to predict levels of
activity.'

The insurgency has bedevilled the reconstruction effort and added massively to
costs. Funds originally earmarked for rebuilding have been diverted to pay for
exigencies such as training a security force.

Amec, which has several hundred project managers in the country, managing up to
10,000 contractors, has regularly had to stop projects because of insurgent
activity. For smaller operators, the environment has often proved too much.

Graham Hand of the British Consultants and Contractors Bureau says that of about
30 British contractors in Iraq two years ago, there are now only half a dozen
there. 'When companies first went out, they were told by the government that it
was difficult, but would get better. It has got worse.'

Companies have to pay for the protection teams provided by outfits such as
Control Risks, which employ ex-servicemen in armoured 4x4 vehicles to escort
civilian personnel around the country at a typical cost of $ 5,000 to $ 8,000 a
day.

Andy Bearpark, former head of operations at the Coalition Provisional Authority
and now a UK-based consultant, says: 'The experience of reconstruction has been
expensive, difficult and slow. People have not seen the improvements they
thought they were going to see. The result is you get an Iraqi population that
is disaffected.'

Despite Amec's claim that it has nearly finished what it was asked to do, Iraq's
infrastructure appears to be in a worse condition that it was before the war.
For example, the electricity supply is still around 4,000 megawatts, about the
pre-war level. On average, there is 12 hours of supply a day. Meanwhile, oil
production is 1.1 million barrels a day, below pre-war levels.

Lack of electricity causes civil unrest - there have been riots. And, as the US
made clear, oil production is vital if Iraq is to stand by itself.

Bearpark says America has invested more than any other country, but it has not
seen the results. 'It is a tough position,' he said.

There is some light, however. Neil Quillian, an Iraq analyst with Control Risks,
says: 'Some contractors are saying they are optimistic following December's
elections.' He says the fact that disaffected Sunni muslims participated in the
vote suggests a more peaceful future.

Does he believe this? He is unsure. Does Bearpark? No. And Amec? The company
will only repeat that the future remains uncertain.


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                             965 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              June 18, 2010 Friday

Film & Music: CD reviews: Blame it on the boogie: An outstanding compilation
series shows why disco overcame the haters and seeped into pop's DNA, writes
Alexis Petridis: Various Disco Discharge: Pink Pounders, Digging Deeper,
European Connection, Disco Boogie 5/5 (Harmless)

BYLINE: Alexis Petridis

SECTION: GUARDIAN FILM AND MUSIC PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 853 words


Of all the bewildering moments in pop history, few are quite as bewildering as
Disco Demolition Night. This was an incident that occurred in Chicago in 1979,
when a local radio DJ called Steve Dahl invited listeners to bring disco records
to a Chicago White Sox baseball game, where he would blow them up. About 90,000
people turned up. They threw beer and firecrackers, and stormed on to the pitch
chanting "disco sucks!", starting fires and rioting. Thirty-nine arrests were
made.

It's not the Disco Demolition's motivation that's baffling, although British
onlookers might be a little startled at the amount of influence a local DJ could
wield: if Dr Fox announced a fatwah on dubstep, he'd have difficulty enlisting
enough people to fill a lift, let alone a stadium. It's more what happened in
its aftermath: American record buyers didn't roundly condemn the stunt as the
work of violent, hooting morons, laden with dark intimations of homophobia and
racism. Instead, American record buyers acted as if they had a point. Within two
months of the riot, the US top 10 had been cleansed of disco. "People were now
even afraid to say the word," noted Chic's Nile Rodgers. Faced with a choice
between, on the one hand, a load of cloth-eared thickos setting fire to things
and smashing stuff up because some people had the temerity to like music they
didn't, and, on the other, the people on the cover of Chic's C'est Chic -
elegant, beautiful, insanely talented - the US record buying public acted as if
the cloth-eared thickos were the cool ones, the disco musicians the
embarrassment.

At the time, the notion that anyone would ever consider compiling a series of
beautifully packaged, expertly curated disco compilations would have seemed
weird and laughable, like Cahiers du Cinema publishing a scholarly essay on the
oeuvre of Robin Askwith. Today, disco is enshrined in the general public
imagination as an affected archaism, something tipsy hen parties dance to in
comedy afro wigs, but what's striking about the content of these four double-CD
sets - which follow last summer's first instalments in the series - is how
current most of it sounds. Admittedly, there are things here that seem
charmingly of their time. Voyage's glorious From East to West speaks of an age
when air travel was still associated with rarefied glamour, rather than global
warming and the Ryanair in-flight menu, while you probably couldn't get away any
longer with the game attempt by Sticky Fingers, on the song Party Song, to blend
Grieg's In the Hall of the Mountain King with the deathless "oooha! oooha!"
whoop of the Michael Zager Band's Let's All Chant. But those moments are vastly
outweighed by tracks that could conceivably have been released last week: the
odd conjunction of sweet pop tune and disorientating electronics on Sylvia
Love's Instant Dub, the exquisitely dead-eyed ode to loveless sex that is
Poussez!'s Never Say Goodbye. That's partly because dance music is currently in
the midst of one of its periodic disco revivals, but it's mostly because the
Disco Demolition came too late: by the time the dickheads stormed the pitch,
disco had already seeped into pop music's very DNA. People were bound to be
endlessly inspired by disco, because the best of it pulled off the greatest
trick of all: somehow managing to be both perfect, gleaming pop songs and
endlessly adventurous experiments at the same time.

With most of the genre's unimpeachable classics already rounded up on the
series' first four volumes, it falls to these eight CDs to unearth lesser-known
gems, including of all things, a disco track by Toto, the soft rockers who later
in their career blessed the rains down in Africa. If there's nothing on Pink
Pounders with quite the jaw-dropping impact of the Boys Town Gang's Cruisin' the
Streets (in fairness, given that its 13 minutes culminate with a playlet in
which police officers punish a couple of cottagers by forcing them at gunpoint
to take part in a orgy with a passing prostitute, there's not really much in
musical history that has quite the jaw-dropping impact of Cruisin' the Streets),
there are still things that leave you boggling at their abundant oddness, not
least the Immortals' The Ultimate Warlord, which sets a distorted vocal against
Hammer Horror organ and relentless four-to-the-floor beats.

Most remarkable of all might be USA-European Connection's There's a Way Into My
Heart, a 1978 track that wouldn't seem out of place on a 2010 album by the
critically acclaimed producer Lindstrom. It threads a euphoric chorus -
underpinned with the weird, ineffable melancholy that seemed to lurk at disco's
heart - through 12 minutes of astonishing musical shifts: swooning, melodramatic
strings, Spanish guitar filigree, stark passages of hypnotic, repetitious
riffing, a Pink Floyd-ish solo. You could argue the only thing that's missing is
a lengthy improvisation on the kitchen sink, but equally, it's hard not to be
stunned that anything this imaginative could ever be the subject of opprobrium:
proof the past can still seem a foreign country, even when it sounds like the
present.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             966 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

Comment: Diary: Diary Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 694 words


&#10002;Can it be true, as friends allege, that Adam Werritty's true role was to
provide intelligence to Liam Fox because the defence secretary felt unable to
trust his civil servants? That would surely be a rum state of affairs. And yet
there is some evidence that Liam has been having a few problems asserting
himself as master of the MoD. When the Baha Mousa inquiry heard in March last
year that eight or more civilians had died in British military custody by the
time of Mousa's death, my colleague Ian Cobain asked the MoD to say who they
were, what were the circumstances, how did they die, what inquiries were made
etc. No answer. And yet he kept up the pressure. Finally, he got a call from one
of Dr Fox's special advisers. The poor spad. He was exasperated. The secretary
of state is determined to give you the answers, he said. It's the army; they
won't tell him.

&#10002;People find it just as difficult getting a straight answer out of Boris
Johnson and his people in London. In July, when it emerged that the great
divider Lynton Crosby had returned to run Boris's campaign for re-election,
observers noticed that the Australian strategist appeared to have the run of
City Hall, even though he doesn't work there. An appearance by Lynton will
always merit attention. This, after all, was the man responsible for John
Howard's four victories in Australia and Michael Howard's lamentable
dog-whistling "Are you thinking what we're thinking" ad campaign on immigration
in our 2005 election. So how did he get that all-access pass to City Hall,
inquired my colleague Dave Hill back then. "An admin officer mistakenly approved
a security pass, which was swiftly withdrawn when senior officials were
alerted," Boris's people said. But was that true? Not entirely. For the whole
thing puzzled blogger Adam Bienkov, so he submitted an FoI request. And what did
he receive? A memo to officials from Boris's executive assistant Ann Sindall,
dated 28 February. "The mayor would like Lynton Crosby to be issued with a
security pass, for six months renewable." So, let's try that again. Who gave the
great divider the run of City Hall? 'Twas Boris.

&#10002;A fascinating cast of characters have passed through City Hall. The one
who lied about his qualifications to become deputy mayor. The one who was
convicted of fraud. And then there was James McGrath, the one who resigned after
saying that any old black people who didn't like Boris's rule should go back to
where they came from. What happened to him? Well he has been running campaigns
for the Liberal National party in Australia. And right now he is in a spot of
bother because his party has been caught compiling a "dirt file", including the
sexual peccadilloes of its opponents. He has escaped calls for his resignation,
but he has been reprimanded. If things get nasty, he can always come back here.

&#10002;While we're talking nasty, there's Robert Mugabe, and then there is the
Rev Peter Mullen chastising Rowan Williams on the Mail's RightMinds site. He
says the archbishop, visiting Zimbabwe, should have made a stand. "He should
have followed Jesus's example, stridden into that cathedral in full
archiepiscopal attire and commanded the renegade cleric and his lackeys to get
out. But then those louts might have murdered the good Dr Williams. So what? As
they were stabbing him, he could at least have fallen to his knees rejoicing in
his martyrdom." No wonder Rowan wants to retire.

&#10002;Finally, the wait is over. Alarmed by the riots, the US self-defence
expert Tim Larkin is heading for Tottenham. "Tim maintains there is no place in
today's violent world for traditional self-defence techniques based on 'poncy
dance moves'," says his publicist. But then, we have been here before, with Tim
and others. In the late 1980s Curtis Sliwa and his Guardian Angels group of US
vigilantes arrived with practical advice on how to combat the criminal classes.
And recruits quickly assembled, many thoroughly disreputable. It was hard to
tell who was the worst - the undercover reporter from the Telegraph, the Sun,
the Mirror, the London Standard or the Daily Mail.

Diary@guardian.co.uk

Twitter.com/hugh-muir

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             967 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                               24 Hours Vancouver

                             June 14, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Celebrate Tax Pride; America could learn a lot from us about law equality

BYLINE: Jamie Golombek, Postmedia Network

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 589  words


June 2016 marks Canada&;#39;s first ever Pride Month, which was officially
launched on June 1 when Prime Minister Justin Trudeau raised a Pride flag on
Parliament Hill to recognize Canadians who have worked to secure equal rights
for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals and to celebrate sexual
and gender diversity.

Last month, the Liberal government introduced legislation (Bill C-16) to update
the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code that would make it illegal
to discriminate on the basis of gender identity or expression.

The history of Pride Month and why June was chosen as a month of celebrations
can be traced back to the 1969 Stonewall riots in Manhattan&;#39;s Greenwich
Village, when members of the LGBT community held violent demonstrations against
a police raid at the Stonewall Inn on June 28, 1969.

Yet surprisingly, nearly 50 years after the Stonewall riots, the U.S. continues
to lag behind Canada when it comes to equal treatment for same-sex couples under
the tax laws.

Canada&;#39;s Income Tax Act was formally amended in 2001 to recognize samesex
common-law partners. Under our tax law, &;#34;commonlaw partners&;#34; are
defined as two people, regardless of sex, who cohabit in a conjugal relationship
and have done so for a continuous period of at least one year. As a result,
common-law couples, including same-sex couples, are treated exactly the same
under our tax law as spouses who are legally married.

Perhaps the greatest tax advantage of this treatment occurs when one partner in
a marriage or common-law relationship passes away. The Tax Act allows all your
property to be automatically &;#34;rolled over&;#34; to your surviving spouse or
partner on a tax-deferred basis.

This includes not only all your non-registered investments, like stocks, bonds
and mutual funds, but also your RRSP or RRIF. By leaving all your assets to a
spouse or partner upon death, you can avoid paying current capital gains tax on
the deemed disposition of your assets at fair

market value as of the date of death. In addition, you can defer taxes on the
fair market value income inclusion of your RRSP or RRIF, which, absent a
rollover, would be fully taxable as income on your final tax return.

The U.S., however, does not recognize same-sex common-law partners as equal
under its tax laws. Take the recent case, decided last month, of a New Jersey
man whose partner of 31 years passed away six days before their planned wedding.

The New Jersey Tax Court ruled that the couple wasn&;#39;t entitled to claim an
estate tax deduction as a surviving spouse because the couple was neither
married nor in a civil union. This cost the couple just over US$100,000 in New
Jersey estate tax when the man died.

While the couple registered as a same-sex domestic partnership under New
Jersey&;#39;s Domestic Partnership Act (DPA) back in 2004, that wasn&;#39;t
enough to qualify the surviving partner to be treated as a spouse for estate tax
purposes.

&;#34;Although the plaintiff and decedent were eligible to enter into either a
civil union or a marriage as of the date of the decedent&;#39;s death, they did
neither,&;#34; the judge wrote. &;#34;This court must apply the DPA as it is
written, not as this court thinks it ought to be written, or as plaintiff would
prefer it to be written.&;#34;

Although Canada doesn&;#39;t have an estate tax, the harsh tax treatment upon
the death of one partner in a same-sex couple would never have occurred under
Canadian tax laws, giving us another reason to celebrate this June.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 24 Hours Vancouver
                              All Rights Reserved


                             969 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 10, 2008 Monday

Serbia: Roundup of reports on police-related issues Mar 08

LENGTH: 1938 words


Text of report in English by Serbian news agency Beta

Former Crvena Zvezda Officials Arrested Dragan Dzajic, the director of the
national teams selection of the Football League of Serbia, and Vladimir
Cvetkovic, along with Milos Marinkovic, former officials in the Crvena Zvezda
football club, were arrested on Feb. 5 on suspicion of making over EUR6 million
by falsifying official IDs. The police said Dzajic, as a former official in
Crvena Zvezda, together with the other two suspects, had opened an account in
Komercijalna Bank in the name of football player Goran Drulic and withdrawn
money by forging his signature. As those responsible in the transfer of Drulic
to Real Saragosa, Dzajic, Cvetkovic and Marinkovic had from July 4, 2001 to
March 15, 2002, allegedly closed a contract envisaging for Crvena Zvezda to get
an equivalent of about 13m euros in compensation.

Supreme Court To Hear Staged Car Crash Case From March 3 to March 7, the Supreme
Court will preside over the trial for the murder of four Serbian Renewal
Movement members in a staged car crash on Oct. 3, 1999, the court said on Feb.
7. This will be the second time in the 161- year history of the court that it
will hear a criminal case. The court went on to say that the decision was made
due to the complexity of the case and the large number of facts and defendants.
This was considered to be better than striking down the conviction handed down
by a lower court. Four Renewal Movement officials lost their lives and party
leader Vuk Draskovic sustained slight injuries in the staged traffic accident,
which took place on the Ibarska Magistrala highway on Oct. 3, 1999. On Feb.

16, the Belgrade District Court sentenced former secret police Col. Milorad
Ulemek to 15 years in prison and former secret police chief Radomir Markovic to
eight years for the crime. In addition, four members of the now defunct Special
Operations Unit were sentenced to 14 years each for their roles in the crime.

Five Kils of Heroin Confiscated in Joint Police Operation On Feb. 10 Belgrade
police announced that five kilograms of high-purity heroin, worth some
EUR330,000, have been seized in a joint operation conducted by the Interior
Ministry's Criminal Police Directorate and the police directorates of Novi Pazar
and Uzice. The heroin, stored in 10 packages, was discovered at the Uvac border
crossing near Priboj in the possession of Alija Djerlek, 56, and his wife
Rabija, 51, both Slovenian citizens, and was intended for the Slovenian market.

Serbian, Russian Justice Ministries Close Cooperation Deal Justice Minister
Dusan Petrovic signed a cooperation deal with Russian Justice Minister Vladimir
Ustinov on Feb. 12. After the signing ceremony in Moscow, Petrovic told BETA
that the deal emphasizes the political will of both ministries to work together.
The arrangement will also facilitate closer and more productive cooperation
between the Serbian and Russian courts and prosecutors, as well as boost their
exchange of information. "On the other hand, the expansion of economic
cooperation and trade between our nations also requires more international legal
assistance. This agreement will make that aid more effective," Petrovic added.

Serbian, Croatian Border Police Get New Equipment Serbian and Croatian border
police have received vehicles and equipment intended to help combat cross-border
and organized crime, courtesy of the British Foreign Office and International
Organization for Migration. On Feb. 12, police manning the Batrovci border
crossing received two Land Rover vehicles, two laptop computers, and two sets of
night-vision equipment as part of the project, which also includes training for
border guards.

At Least 35 Injured in Belgrade Unrest At least 35 persons were injured on the
evening of Feb. 17 in Belgrade, in scuffles that broke out after the Kosovo
Assembly declared independence, BETA was told at the Emergency Medical Centre.
Demonstrators, mostly young people, hurled stones and torches at the US Embassy,
and threw a street sign at a cordon of police. On the building of the embassy,
one window was broken. The police, who were equipped with helmets, bullet-proof
vests and shields, pushed back the demonstrators from the embassy building.

Police, Hooligans Clash in Belgrade, Other Serbian Towns The Serbian Gendarmerie
on the afternoon of Feb. 18 on several occasions clashed with groups of mostly
young hooligans in downtown Belgrade, and individual incidents were also
reported in Nis, Smederevo, Subotica, and Kikinda. A group of some 100 fans of
Belgrade soccer clubs hurled stones at a cordon of police at the intersection of
two central streets in downtown Belgrade, in an attempt to reach foreign
embassies located nearby. The group, which in the meantime grew to several
hundred, demolished a McDonald's restaurant in the wider city centre by throwing
stones and chairs, while the Slovenian hypermarket Mercator, located in the
vicinity of the New Belgrade municipal building, was temporarily closed after a
bomb threat in the facility.

Criminal Charges Filed Against Thaci, Sejdiu, and Krasniqi The Serbian Interior
Ministry brought criminal charges against three of Kosovo's highest ranking
officials on Feb. 18 for, as was reported, "proclaiming an artificial state on
Serbian soil. " The charges were brought against Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim
Thaci, Kosovo President Fatmir Sejdiu and Kosovo Assembly Speaker Jakup
Krasniqi. An Interior Ministry statement reads that on Feb. 17 in Pristina,
Thaci, Sejdiu and Krasniqi organized the proclamation of an artificial state on
Serbian soil, and, in so doing, have committed a "serious criminal act against
the constitutional order and security of Serbia. "

Serb Demonstrators Destroy Border Checkpoints UNMIK [UN Interim Administration
Mission in Kosovo] police withdrew from two checkpoints on the administrative
border separating Serbia and Kosovo after coming under attack from several
thousand northern Kosovo Serbs earlier that day. The checkpoints were
demolished. The Jarinje and Brnjak crossings came under assault at about 11:30
a. m. and were left in shambles, while the Jarinje crossing was also torched,
together with several police jeeps. The rioting came to an end a little after 1
p. m. Several hundred Serbs from Leposavic and the surrounding area had gathered
at the Jarinje crossing, while several hundred demonstrators were at the Brnjak
crossing. No clashes between Kfor [Kosovo Force] and the demonstrators took
place.

Ministry Says 51 Policemen, 34 Citizens Injured in Riots The Interior Ministry
on Feb. 19 announced that 51 policemen and 34 citizens have been injured in the
demonstrations sparked by the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence.
The ministry urged citizens to express their dissatisfaction with the
declaration of independence in a peaceful and dignified manner, and especially
called on sports clubs and their fans to cooperate with the police in
maintaining public order, peace and the full protection of the personal and
material safety of all citizens. According to the ministry, several facilities
were damaged in the riots, including the embassies of the US, Canada, Slovenia,
Turkey, and Iran, 10 McDonald's restaurants, 52 stores and four buildings
housing the offices of certain political parties. Several vehicles, street
lighting and traffic lights were also vandalized. The Interior Ministry on Feb.
19 again refrained from revealing the number of people arrested during the riots
.

US Embassy Attacked, One Person Dead Several hundred protesters on Feb. 21
attacked and broken into the US Embassy in Belgrade, setting fire to part of it.
The U. S. Embassy in Belgrade later announced that a charred body was found
inside the building after attack by rioters. The US embassy was closed and
unprotected at the time. The violence followed a peaceful protest by at least
150,000 people outside the main parliament building against Kosovo's declaration
of independence. About 100 people, many of them policemen, were injured in
clashes between the demonstrators and the police in Belgrade, during and after
the rally, held under the slogan "Kosovo Is Serbia. " They sustained mainly
light injuries, except one Dutch reporter who had three ribs fractured, BETA was
told by the deputy director of Belgrade's Trauma Centre, Dusan Jovanovic. BETA
reporters saw several demonstrators being knocked to the ground by police,
handcuffed and arrested.

One Person Dies, Over 200 Injured in Riots One person died, and over 200
demonstrators and police officers were injured and hospitalized during the riots
in Belgrade, BETA learned on Feb. 22. The Belgrade Health Department announced
that 212 persons sustained injuries, 49 of which were police officers. It was
added that the Belgrade Ambulance Service had a total of 99 interventions, while
the ER department had 113. The Ambulance teams attended to some 500 people with
light injuries. A charred body was found in the U. S. Embassy which was
demolished and torched by rioters. The victim was later identified as Zoran
Vujovic, a student from Novi Sad, who came to settle in Serbia from Caglavica in
Kosovo.

Clash at Crossing Between Kosovo, Serbia At least 19 members of the Kosovo
police and five Serbian army reservists were injured on Feb. 25 at an
administrative crossing 35 kilometers from Pristina while the reservists were
protesting against Kosovo's proclaimed independence. Kosovo police spokesman
Veton Elshani told BETA the at a group of around 150 reservists had thrown
rocks, motor oil and water at Kosovo police members at the Mutivode crossing,
northern Kosovo, forcing them to use tear gas. The protesters also torched
tires, Elshani said, adding that the demonstrators withdrew once KFOR members
appeared at the scene.

A Number of Persons Face Criminal Charges for Rioting A total of 44 criminal
charges have been filed against 80 participants of the riots which broke out in
Belgrade during protests against Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence,
the State Prosecutor's Office announced on Feb. 29. Fifty four persons have been
charged with grand theft, 12 with preventing officials from performing their
duties, two with assaulting an officer, and one with aggressive behaviour, while
ten face charges for being members of a group that committed a criminal offence.
One criminal complaint has also been filed for the destruction and damaging of
private property. The Prosecutor's Office said that intensive efforts are still
under way to discover the organizers and participants of the riots, and that the
public will be duly notified of all actions the Prosecution undertakes.

Police Lead by Interior Ministry's State Secretary, Kostunica Says Prime
Minister Vojislav Kostunica on Feb. 29 said that the police had responded
"promptly and efficiently" to the riots following the "Kosovo is Serbia" protest
rally on Feb. 21 in Belgrade and denied claims that anyone from the government
had ordered the police not to react. Kostunica added that the entire police
force is lead by State Secretary Mirjana Orasanin, currently standing in for the
minister. The head of U. S. national intelligence agencies Michael MacConnel
told the American Senate that the Serbian government ordered the police not to
act when protesters attacked the U. S. and other western embassies in Belgrade
due to Kosovo's declaration of independence. When asked whether the police could
have reacted faster, Kostunica said that "paying the police compliments means
that they were both prompt and efficient in their response. "

Source: Beta news agency, Belgrade, in English 7 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             970 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2008 Monday

Overseas Chinese hold huge rally in New York to support Beijing Olympics

LENGTH: 1017 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["Huge Rally Held in New York in Support of Beijing Olympics" - Xinhua headline]

NEW YORK, May 4 (Xinhua) - Nearly 10,000 Chinese students, scholars and Chinese
Americans held a peaceful rally here Sunday to support the Beijing Olympics and
denounce attempts to sabotage the sporting event.

With both Chinese and American national colours and the Beijing Olympics
banners, the students from New York, Connecticut, New Jersey, Illinois,
Massachusetts and other neighbouring states, chanted slogans such as "Join the
Beijing Olympics, feel a real China," and "Free Olympics from Politics."

The rally, first initiated by a group of Chinese American students, won
widespread support among Chinese communities around the United States.

During the rally at Foley Square in lower Manhattan, the Beijing Association of
New York hired two small airplanes flying streamers that read "Go to 2008
Beijing Olympics" and "CNN, Cafferty, Shut up!"

The second streamer was a response to CNN news commentator Jack Cafferty's
derogative description of Chinese as "goons and thugs" on April 9 in a news
programme covering the Olympic torch relay in San Francisco.

In addition to the Beijing Association of New York, a dozen other organizations
of Chinese Americans were also present at Sunday's rally.

"We live in one world, a world for peace, stability and harmony. We pursue one
dream, a dream of peace and development," said George Hua, president of the New
York Association for Peaceful Unification of China.

"Beijing welcomes all with smiles and warmth," Hua said. "Join us in Beijing,
and enjoy the Games!"

Imbued in a festive aura, the rally featured live performance of the Chinese
national anthem, popular Chinese songs and Olympic songs, with the big crowd
chanting the chorus.

Sunday's rally was one of a string of similar actions taken by the Chinese
community around the world following violent disruptions of the overseas legs of
the Olympic torch relay, and the distorted coverage of the March 14 Lhasa riots
by some Western media outlets.

"There is no way we're going to sit still when a small number of extremists try
to hijack the Olympic Games for their own political agenda," said Xu Ming, a
Beijing University graduate on an MBA programme at Duke University.

"There is no way we keep silent when the so-called 'activists' viciously attack
our torch-bearer in a wheelchair," Xu said.

"Just like any other country in the world, China is not perfect," he said. "We
welcome criticism, not hostility; we welcome human rights, but not disrespect;
we love freedom, but not anarchy; we seek out truth, but we don't appreciate
media distortion."

Thong Yan, a 62-year-old cook who has lived in the United States for more than
20 years and worked at the Jacobi Medical Centre in the Bronx before retiring,
said he was outraged by Cafferty's insulting comments, and could not go to sleep
for several nights.

"I was extremely outraged," said Yan, who came to the rally to have his voice
heard despite an injured waist. "I would still come even if I had no feet!"

Chen Wenhan, a 71-year-old from Jiangsu, China, visiting his son in New York,
jumped at the chance of the rally.

"The Chinese cannot be bullied at will any more," he said. "Unlike in the past,
we have stood up now."

Staffers at World Journal, a local Chinese-language daily newspaper, were
distributing mineral water custom-packaged for the event for free.

The idea came from Julie Lee, a 28-year-old Taiwan native at the paper's
distributions department.

"The Olympics is the pride of all Chinese," Lee said. "The Chinese people should
unite for an excellent Olympics. The World Journal, as a Chinese language media
outlet, should make its due contribution to the Olympics, and speak for its own
people."

An exhibition on Tibet's past and present was held on the sidelines of the
rally.

One placard showed that the infant mortality rate in Tibet dropped from 430 per
thousand in 1951 to only 35 per thousand in 2006 and the region's average life
expectancy had increased from 35 to 67 years.

The number of Tibetans enjoying primary education rose from 2 per cent in 1951
to 98 per cent in 2006.

"It is the cohesiveness of the Chinese nation and the dedication of all China
that contributed to the transition of Tibet from an underdeveloped region to one
that develops in synch with the whole country," said Huang Yue, a Tsinghua
University graduate on an MBA programme at Duke.

The rally also attracted the attention of people from non-Chinese communities.

"I love today's event," said Joachim Stroh of Germany. "I really support China,
I support the Olympics."

On Cafferty's comments about China, Stroh said: "It's horrible. It's really,
really bad for CNN. (It) puts things in such a wrong light, wrong context, he
really needs to do a lot more to take his words back, not only apologize, but
take some action."

"I think CNN should take some action and do something about those unbelievable
(comments)."

Raffaele Abbate, an Italian who works as a managing director at Oxora.com, said
he has "told everyone in our company that we can't all go by what the media
said."

"We need to know the facts. We need to know the history. We need to know what's
really going on," he said.

"Today I am here to represent myself, our company, but more so to represent
Westerners, because this controversy has created a misunderstanding for the
Chinese people as well as Westerners."

"There are still people who do not know the truth," Abbate said. "We know the
benefits the Chinese government has brought to Tibet. We understand the people
are better off today than they were 50 years ago."

"And I also understand that it's clear that the nation needs to be united, so
when there is a riot, when there is a problem, how else can a government counter
a violent riot, with 1.3 billion people?"

Abbate also condemned the "silly attacks" on the Olympic torch, "which has
nothing to do with politics, it's only got to do with the spirit of the games."

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0525 gmt 5 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             971 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 9, 2008 Sunday

Anti-terror decree endorsed by 6,000 Indian Muslim scholars

LENGTH: 611 words


Text of report headlined "Ulema, Muftis Ratify Fatwa Against Terrorism"
published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 9 November

Hyderabad -- In a significant move, about 6,000 ulema [Muslim religious
scholars] and Muftis [experts in Islamic jurisprudence] from different parts of
India on Saturday [ 8 November] ratified the fatwa [decree] against terrorism
issued by the Darul Uloom Deoband, the renowned seminary and Islamic academic
centre.

"There is no relation whatsoever between Islam and terrorism. The two are poles
apart." That is the message the ulema sent out at the two-day, 29th national
session of the Jamaiat-Ulama-i-Hind, which began here on Saturday. Jamiat
leaders heading different State branches affixed their signatures endorsing the
fatwa issued by grand mufti Habibur Rehman.

"Islam rejects all kinds of unjust violence, breach of peace, bloodshed, murder
and plunder and does not allow it in any form. Cooperation should be done for
the cause of good but not for committing sin or oppression," the fatwa declared.

The Jamiat is expected to adopt resolutions against terrorism, communal riots,
the U.S. aggression in Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan, and Qadiyani and
Christian activities, and on national integration, reservation for Muslims, the
Sachar Committee report on the condition of Muslims, Islamic identity and social
reform at a public meeting on the Nizam College grounds here on Sunday [ 9
November].

A large number of ulema, including Jamiat president Maulana Qari Mohammad Usman
Mansoorpuri, and Maulana Marghoob-ur-Rehman, Rector, Darul Uloom, arrived here
by a special train "Shaikhul Hind Express"from Deoband.

In his presidential remarks, Maulana Mansoorpuri said terrorism was the most
serious problem facing the country. The most unfortunate thing was that, on the
one hand, the acts of a few misguided elements were being linked to Islam and,
on the other, a distorted picture of Islam and its Prophet was being presented.
Both the print and electronic media were being used to spread misunderstanding
and falsehood about Islam. He urged the media to distinguish between a suspect
and an accused and not to brand anyone terrorist before the court verdict was
out.

"We have no love for offenders whichever religion they might belong to. Our
concern is that innocents should not be targeted and the career of educated
youth not ruined. The government should ensure transparency in investigation."

Quoting Koranic verses, Maulana Mansoorpuri explained how Islam preached
universal love and brotherhood and stressed cordial interpersonal relationship
with fellow countrymen. Islam attached the utmost respect for human life and
termed unjust killings a great sin. "Whatever faith one professes, the Koran
calls for honouring and safeguarding every human being," Maulana Mansoorpuri
said.

The teacher of Hadith at Deoband said terrorism was not the problem of one
community but of the country, and everyone should join hands to tackle it.
Maulana Mansoorpuri urged Muslims to follow the Shariat in letter and in spirit
lest they become a tool for harming the religion more than others.

"Threat to society"

Rajya Sabha member and Jamiat leader Maulana Mehmood Madni said it was wrong to
link terrorism with religion. Whoever indulged in acts of terrorism were 'mad
and lunatics'. Those who instigated violence in the name of religion and region
posed a threat to the social fabric of society and should be dealt with an iron
hand. "The government should not have a dual policy when it comes to dealing
with terrorists."

Earlier, Hakimuddin Qasmi presented the secretary report.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 09 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             972 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   December 6, 2003 Saturday Ontario Edition

Delays fuel rage at Iraqi pumps

BYLINE: Mitch Potter, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 640 words


Fuel shortage angers Iraqis

To the right, frazzled men in shabby cars lined up as far as the eye could see,
awaiting their turn at the gas pump. To the left, a line of women nearly as
long, clad head to toe in the black abiyas of Shia Islam, standing vigil for
cooking gas.

And underfoot, the deeper irony: The world's second largest petroleum reserves
rested unrefined and unavailable, further fuelling the frustration above.

It seemed inevitable that the scene yesterday at Baghdad's impoverished Sadr
City neighbourhood would boil.

And so it did at midday, when a raging queue-jumper was clobbered on the head
with the butt of a rifle issued to the Iraqi Civil Defence Corps.

Scouts with the U.S. Army's 2nd Armoured Cavalry Division raced into the ensuing
melee on foot and, with the help of translators, managed to defuse the mini-
riot.

The U.S. soldiers dipped into their own medical field kit to patch the bleeding
man. In the end, the incident paled against yesterday's deadlier harvest of
Iraqi war statistics.

Across town, another remote-controlled roadside bomb killed one U.S. soldier and
at least four Iraqi civilians when it exploded as a military convoy and a packed
minibus crossed paths outside a mosque filled with worshippers. A second bomb
struck a U.S. convoy elsewhere in the city, damaging a Humvee but causing no
casualties.

But whatever fight might be left in the Iraqi resistance - and yesterday top
U.S. administrator L. Paul Bremer warned attacks against American forces will
likely intensify in the months to come - it is clear that for everyday Iraqis,
there is no rage like fuel rage.

They may not be able to count on much, but Iraqis have always counted on a
supply of gasoline so plentiful and cheap as to be nearly free. The going rate
at the moment is 20 dinars per litre approximately 1.3 cents Canadian - but it
can be had at that price only by waiting in wildly unnerving lineups that are
now as much as a day long at some stations.

A burgeoning black market is the alternative. Iraqi roadways are now clogged
with jerry-can-and-funnel-toting children offering to instantly top up your tank
for the princely sum of 350 dinars - about 23 cents - a litre.

At 17 times the official price, the black market is a bargain by Canadian
standards. But even after post-Saddam wage increases, Iraqi salaries top out at
$100 a month for such positions as emergency-room surgeon, and the black market
is far too expensive for most.

The dilemma is driving Iraqis to distraction and damaging the already wobbly
credibility of the U.S.-led Coalition Provisional Authority, which seemed to
have solved Iraq's energy woes until the shortages began reappearing two weeks
ago.

Coalition and Iraqi political sources offer multiple reasons for the recurring
crisis: antiquated domestic refineries running at less than half of prewar
levels; increasing demand from as many as 250,000 second-hand cars imported at
duty-free prices since Saddam Hussein's ouster; and the continuing sabotage of
oil pipelines and harassment of fuel trucks on the chaotic roads.

One Baghdad station manager yesterday denied there was any crisis at all, saying
the problem is a lack of confidence in distribution, which has in turn triggered
a hoarding mentality. And the black market, he said, cannot be stemmed because
it is acquiring supplies legitimately by sending cars into the lineups, then
siphoning the fuel into containers to be resold.

None of which mattered yesterday to the raging hordes lined up at Sadr City.
"When they can't even put benzene in your car after all this time, you wonder
what these people in charge are doing," said Mohammad al-Dawri, an auto
mechanic, who expected the wait would cost him the day.

"Iraqis know how to look after Iraqis. They should let us handle it."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mitch Potter/Toronto Star An Iraqi man is restrained by a passerby as
an American soldier tries to calm him during an altercation yesterday at a
crowded gas station in Baghdad's Sadr City neighbourhood. Acute gas shortages
have swept the oil-rich country as some antiquated domestic refineries run at
less than half of their prewar levels.

                  Copyright 2003 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                             973 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                   Intellinews - Bosnia and Herzegovina Today

                            February 10, 2014 Monday

Intl overseers might send EU troops to Bosnia if social unrest escalates - Inzko

LENGTH: 773  words


The international high representative in Bosnia, Valentin Inzko, said in the
weekend that the EU might intervene in Bosnia if the violent protests against
the economic hardship and political corruption escalate.

The international steering committee on Bosnia will meet to discuss the
situation on Tuesday, Feb 11, Inzko told Austrian daily Kurir in an interview.
Austria plans to increase its forces in the Balkan country and if the situation
escalates probably EU troops will be sent, he said, adding for the time being
this is not necessary.

Inzko's office, however, explained on Sunday, Feb 9 - one day after the
interview was published, that he was only answering a hypothetical question,
pointing out that the EUFOR is a stabilising factor in Bosnia and its main duty
is to support the peace. The spokesman of Inzko's office, Eldar Subasic,
explained the situation has calmed down and therefore there is no need to
speculate on the possible role of EUFOR, daily Dnevni Avaz reported.

Regarding the current protests, Inzko told Kurir this is the worst situation in
Bosnia since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in 1995, which put an end
to the ethnic war. He condemned the violent demonstrations that left over 100
people injured in the past several days but said the unrest has been justified
by the lasting social inequality.

Inzko pointed to the situation in Tuzla, where many highly educated people have
never had a job but others, who are relatives of politicians, easily get one.
"The result is anger and now the cup is full."

Inzko also explained that Bosnians have not staged protests for a long time as
it is important for them to live peacefully, still remembering the 1990's war,
which left more than 100,000 dead.

He highlighted that the protests started in Tuzla, where workers have been
demonstrating every Wednesday for a year - but their pleas have been left
unnoticed so far.

According to him, one of the reasons for Bosnia's inability to solve the lasting
political standstill and introduce working and well-organized governance is the
fact that the Dayton Peace Treaty created a complicated governance structure
even though it was very successful to end the war. In the Muslim-Croat
Federation there are eleven governments with eleven prime ministers and eleven
interior ministers, Inzko said, adding this is inefficient and expensive.

THE PROTESTS

The protests continued on Sunday, Feb 9, with angry citizens blocking the main
road in Sarajevo and calling for the government of PM Nermin Niksic (running the
Muslim-Croat Federation) - and for several cantonal governments - to resign.

The protests proceeded peacefully in the weekend after culminating in setting on
fire the buildings of the Bosnian presidency and Sarajevo's cantonal government
in the capital on Friday. The unrest began in the north-eastern town of Tuzla on
Wednesday, Feb 5, where some 10,000 workers took to the streets angry over job
losses. They throw stones at the local government building and set it on fire.
Protestors clashed with police at several occasions last week, which left
several hundred injured and many arrested.

Workers in Tuzla came to the streets to show their disapproval with the way the
authorities have privatised their firms - and the private owners later on sold
out the assets and started bankruptcy procedures. The workers used to be
employed by furniture producer Konjuh, detergent factory Dita, chemical plants
Polihem and Poliolchem and motor parts manufacturer Resod-Guming. Now they ask
for the payment of their wages arrears from the past years or seek to go back to
work.

Last week's protest grew from Tuzla to several cities, including Sarajevo,
Bihac, Zanica and Mostar - mainly on the territory of the Muslim-Croat
Federation, one of the two entities that form ethnically-divided Bosnia.
Protestors gathered also in the main city of Bosnia's Serb Republic - Banja
Luka, but reportedly in smaller numbers and mainly to support the demonstrations
in the bigger entity.

Demonstrators have announced peaceful protests will continue in the coming days
as well. At the same time Bosnian media reported that the PM of the Sarajevo
canton, Suad Zeljkovic, informed his cabinet at an extraordinary meeting on
Saturday, Feb 8, he is going to file an irrevocable resignation, which means a
collapse of the whole cantonal government.

Analyst Srecko Latal from the Social Overview Service (SOS) think tank said in
an article last week that the Bosnian protests are "the result of years of
corruption, economic decay and in-fighting among ethno-political elites, but it
is far from certain that they can bring real change."


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2014 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             975 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                   Intellinews - Bosnia and Herzegovina Today

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

COMMENT: Is there a `Plan C' for Bosnia?

LENGTH: 968  words


Bosnia & Herzegovina has been a thorn in Europe's side since the end of the war
there 20 years ago - an event which will be commemorated on December 14. A
succession of plans by the West to heal the divisions and fix this broken
country have largely failed, and there is the very real prospect of a `Plan C'
arising where Russian, Turkish and possibly Middle Eastern influence becomes
more pronounced.

In February 2014 widespread protests spread throughout the Federation of Bosnia
& Herzegovina, one of the country's two entities, after years of frustration
with corruption, economic stagnation and failed privatisations. The riots
brought into focus the international community's failings over this ethnically
divided country, prompting a fresh approach spearheaded by the UK and Germany.
By emphasising socio-economic change over constitutional change, it was hoped
that greater prosperity would ultimately ease opposition to the more contentious
measures Europe is pushing for.

The Anglo-German initiative was intended to defer the controversial
constitutional amendments that had to be passed following the 2009 ruling by the
European Court of Human Right over the Sejdic-Finci case. That ruling obliged
Bosnia to remove discriminatory provisions that were preventing members of
certain communities (ie. Jews and Roma) from running for highest office. Debates
over how to implement the European Court's ruling stalled all political and
economic progress, including on Bosnia's EU accession.

By kicking this can down the road, it was hoped that easier to achieve reforms
would build a more conducive environment for making the trickier constitutional
changes. In doing so, however, it also had the effect of further eroding the
carrot and stick of `conditionality' - the EU's prime tool for dealing with
recalcitrant countries in the Western Balkans - at a time when the prospect of
membership already looks bleak.

Little appetite for reform

The EU's "Compact for Growth and Jobs" laid out a number of practical reforms
designed to foster economic growth: reduced taxation on labour, improved labour
market competitiveness, streamlined processes for starting a business and lower
privileged pensions. After Bosnia's leaders signed a renewed commitment to
European integration, the country's Stabilisation & Association Agreement (SAA)
with the EU finally entered into force in June, having originally been signed
seven years prior. With the country having already enjoyed SAA's trade terms
from 2008, however, its short-term economic benefits will be minimal.

Bosnia's political elites have demonstrated little appetite for undertaking the
deep-seated reforms required, especially of the public sector, pensions and
labour markets. Dependent on networks of patronage and clientalism to underpin
their political bases, Bosnia's politicians do the absolute bare minimum
necessary to satisfy an international community eager to see its new approach
vindicated. With 2016 a local election year across Bosnia, and powerful trade
unions and war veterans groups stretching their vocal chords, the appetite for
reform will only further diminish.

Financial assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which is key to
shoring up the country's budget deficits, has been an important element of the
new strategy. Again, however, there has been slow progress on meeting the IMF's
conditions for a possible new loan to replace the previous (EURO)630mn, 33-month
programme. Indeed, the IMF was forced to freeze a previous deal in September
2014 because of delays in enacting economic measures.

Governments of the two halves of Bosnia - the Muslim-Croat Federation and the
predominantly-Serb entity Republika Srpska - have long resorted to loans from
private banks to cover up financial shortfalls, paying crippling rates of
interest. There are significant concerns about the country's financial system,
especially following the December 2014 collapse of Bobar Bank (which
significantly affected Brcko District and Trebinje municipality), and subsequent
allegations of financial mismanagement and compromised banking regulations.

Into the vacuum

In this context of stagnation, the Russians have moved to strengthen their
diplomatic, financial and cultural influence with their fellow Slavs in
Republika Srpska, which has long-flirted with the idea of secession.

Considerable speculation surrounds a $300m loan from US-based Global Bancorp
Commodities & Investment (GBCI), with allegations that the money actually comes
from Russian sources and is intended to help stave-off a liquidity crisis.
Republika Srpska's president, Milorad Dodik, has also threatened a referendum
designed to challenge the powers of the international community's High
Representative and laws pertaining to Bosnia's state court and prosecutor's
office - seen by many as a further step towards a referendum on independence by
2018.

As Bosnia's economic problems grow more acute, so any failure to fulfil salary,
pension and social benefit obligations will sow the seeds of more public
discontent.

With the deficiencies of the UK and Germany's `Plan B' already exposed, there is
growing concern as to where Bosnia could turn for its `Plan C'. Letting the
country slide into further misery in an effort to motivate reform is a dangerous
game for the EU - one that is only likely to fuel the country's ethnic
divisions. Yet only with credible conditionality, a clear accession path and
progressive partners can the EU reassert its influence.

In the absence of that, `Plan C' could be heavily determined by the likes of
Turkey, Russia and countries in the Middle East (UAE, Iran, Saudi Arabia).

It seems that Bosnia's future will continue to be defined by outsiders - but it
could be outsiders with vastly differing ideas and interests than those to date.


LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             976 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                       Intellinews - Baltic States Today

                              March 4, 2016 Friday

FILM REVIEW: Hail, Vladimir! in "The Master Plan"

LENGTH: 1245  words


First the disclaimer: I provided the English-language voiceover for "The Master
Plan", a new documentary film from the Baltic states purporting to show the
extent and influence of Kremlin-financed NGOs operating in the region. I also
know several of the journalists involved in the making of the film - and
regardless of any other consideration, they deserve the highest praise for
managing to get a film made in the Baltic states, where money for any kind of
celluloid adventure is extremely limited. There's the first contrast with
Vladimir Putin's Russia.

"The Master Plan" begins with a resume of the history of Russia-Baltic
relations, including a straightforward denial of Russian `liberation' at the end
of the World War II, moves on to give the views of dissident Russians such as
Galina Tymchenko and Artemy Troitsky who have relocated to the Baltic states,
and then moves on to its main topic - the activities of pro-Moscow activists in
the region such as Maxim Reva, Aleksandr Gaponenko and MEP Tatjana Zdanoka.

While evidence is gradually assembled to back up a claim that some (EURO)100mn
is spent annually worldwide on supporting pro-Russian NGOs, extensive use is
made of footage of a genuinely epic May 9 Victory Day parade in Moscow, of
ordinary Baltic Russians celebrating May 9 in Riga, reminders of the Euromaidan
revolution in Ukraine and footage of the pro-Moscow activists themselves at work
- which mainly consists of waving placards, describing everything non-Russian as
"fascist" and holding bogus conferences.

A few talking heads appear along the way including A-listers such as Anne
Applebaum and Anders Fogh Rasmussen (who coins the `Master Plan' of the title,
though in connection with the Russian-led Eurasian Economic Union project rather
than Baltic covert ops), venerable supporting actors such as Edward Lucas and
Lev Gudkov, plus, it must be admitted, Western Z-listers such as Julian
Lindley-French who are unknown away from the cosy geopolitical conference
circuit and whose contributions are likely to lack box office pull.

Perhaps it is because I was myself a hand hired to exercise my vocal talents
that the premiere of the film at the Latvian National Library on March 3 leaves
me thinking I am far from alone. The succession of stooges "The Master Plan"
parades before one's eyes as evidence of nefarious Kremlin activity strikes one
as little more than cheap day-extras milling around in the background of a
big-budget Hollywood production.

Anyone who has seen the Coen brothers' latest film, the hugely enjoyable "Hail,
Caesar!", will testify that film extras can occasionally move centre stage -
particularly when they are crypto-Communists with a grudge and Russian
submarines are surfacing in strange places. However these real-life players are
a uniformly seedy bunch possessing no personal charm, their crude pro-Kremlin
positions transparently obvious.

For example, Boris Spiegel, chairman of the hokey `World Without Nazism'
organization looks like a sweaty stand-in for Sidney Greenstreet's obese Gutman
in "The Maltese Falcon". Aleksandr Gaponenko is the sort of B-movie gangster who
gets Tommy-gunned in the first reel, while Maksim Reva should be part of the
gang in a long-forgotten 1950s teen movie about hop-head riots in the streets of
Tallinn. MEP Tatjana Zdanoka would make an excellent stunt double for the Wicked
Witch of the West in "The Wizard Of Oz" for broomstick riding scenes.

Frequently their adventures are unintentionally comical, as when Reva is
`protected' from the Latvian police by a sympathetic MP throwing his body across
him in a parked car. The awkward position in which the two tinpot nationalists
find themselves as a result could easily have got them arrested in Russia on
grounds of promoting homosexuality in a public place.

On another occasion, two self-styled "anti-fascists" stalk the streets ahead of
a demo. "Where are the fascists?" asks one. "I don't know - and I don't want to
know!" replies the other. Sorry, but if you are an anti-fascist, knowing where
the fascists are should be of some interest...

Crucially, this is not a depiction thrust upon these nickel-and-dime extras by
the filmmakers - it seems to come quite naturally. But it also is one of "The
Master Plan's" problems - it is quite hard to see such losers, inhabiting an
almost Graham Greene-ish world of cheap office rentals, soiled bills in
envelopes and constant police surveillance as really serious threats capable of
influencing even the most credulous babushka's mind. If (EURO)100mn is really
being spent on such a mismatched assortment of awkward oddballs, one cannot help
thinking the Kremlin is wasting its money.

Big budget stooges

Of course the real money is elsewhere. The footage of May 9 in Moscow from
Russian state media is genuinely epic in scale and execution, a cross between
"Ben Hur" and "Triumph of the Will". It's easy to see why that might impress a
vast audience and work them into a nationalistic lather. Similarly, the Russian
state media channels themselves with their relentless barrage of brilliantly
presented misinformation are more blockbuster than arthouse.

The sums doled out to the aforementioned regional-level Baltic foot-soldiers are
tiny compared to the financial support that the Kremlin is believed to lend to
the likes of France's National Front and other `If only we had our own
Putin'-type Western political parties. But that, as the filmmakers themselves
admit, is a more recent phenomenon that has only risen to prominence during the
two-year process of making "The Master Plan".

So "The Master Plan" must fight an unequal contest, but makes a pretty good job
of it. Inevitably it will be accused of being `counter-propaganda' and there are
a couple of questionable editorial decisions such as a tendency to bracket all
Baltic Russians together as a homogenous group and an implicit suggestion that
laying flowers on May 9 is itself a pro-Putin act. For some it's just `Russia
party day', while for others it's a genuine memorial for a relative who fought
in the war.

Another problem "The Master Plan" must deal with is their subjects'
unwillingness to communicate. That's a pity because not only does it force the
filmmakers to insert their own explanations of the radicals' activities (lending
further credence to the counter-propaganda claim), but mainly because given
enough rope the protagonists are remarkably effective at hanging themselves. For
example, when Gaponenko explains that US troops are in the Baltics in order to
"build concentration camps and kill all the Russians" no additional editorial
comment is required.

Yet even without a big budget, "The Master Plan" does have genuine stars of its
own, and they are all Russian.

Troitsky is as charming and urbane as ever. There is more drama in listening to
Tymchenko break off a sentence midway to slurp her coffee than there is in a
parade of 1,000 Iskander missiles. The quietest scene of all - Tymchenko's staff
of Russian volunteer journalists sitting around shaking their heads and
wondering how to tell the truth - is the one that lives longest in the memory
and gives the greatest evidence that a large number of Russians want to see real
politicians and real news, not the hammy two-bit actors supplied from central
casting.

"The Master Plan", directed by Juris Pakalnins, is on limited cinema release in
Latvia and will be broadcast on Baltic public media channels in April. You can
watch the trailer here.


LOAD-DATE: March 07, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             982 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             July 9, 2016 Saturday

July 13, 1855: Step right up, see the Circus Riot;
U.S. circus troupe attacked by an enraged mob of locals during a show at Fair
Green

BYLINE: Brennan Doherty Toronto Star

SECTION: GREATER TORONTO; Pg. GT2

LENGTH: 262 words


Victorian-age Toronto had a reputation for riots.

During the mid-nineteenth century, there were the Fireman's Riot, the Cabman's
Riot and the D'Arcy McGee Riot. But the Circus Riot of July 13, 1855, had to be
the weirdest of them all.

That night, S.B. Howe's circus troupe was wrapping up a show at Toronto's Fair
Green when enraged locals tried to cut their tent's lines. They had a score to
settle. While out drinking at a "house of ill-fame" (a bordello) on King St. the
night before, S.B. Howe's performers beat up two locals who started an argument
with them.

Once again, the performers fought back. Among the injured townsfolk this time
was one Joseph Bird - a firefighter with the Hook-and-Ladder Fire Company, a
private unit notorious for starting the Fireman's Riot.

Crowds of locals began pelting the circus tent with stones. Someone rang the
nearby fire bell. The Hook-and-Ladder Fire Company responded - and proceeded to
smash and tip all the circus wagons. Locals also set fire to at least one. The
performers were so terrified, according to media reports, that several dove into
the lake rather than face the mob.

A dozen police officers arrived at the scene - and made no arrests. Seventeen
men were eventually charged with rioting, but officers said in court they
couldn't identify any of them.

City hall later blamed the riot on the city's disorganized fire service and
police force. The chief of police was fired, and both forces were rebuilt.

In a strange coincidence, one month later, S.B. Howe's troupe started another
Circus Riot - in Saint John, New Brunswick.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2016 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                             983 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                August 30, 2003

At least 80 killed in car bomb at mosque in Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANSEN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; WORLD NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 543 words


A massive car bomb killed at least 80 people yesterday, including a leading Shia
cleric, Ayatollah Muhammad Baqr al-Hakim, and wounded 100 outside the holiest
Shia shrine in the central Iraqi city of Najaf.

It was set to go off as the ayatollah, the head of the Tehran-backed Supreme
Council of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), was leaving the mosque,
erected over the tomb of Ali, the martyred son-in-law of the prophet Muhammad.

Iraq's US governor, Mr Paul Bremer, said the perpetrators had shown the "evil
face of terrorism" and vowed Washington would bring them to justice.

"The bombing shows again that the enemies of the new Iraq will stop at nothing,"
said Mr Bremer. "Again, they have killed innocent Iraqis. Again, they have
violated one of Islam's most sacred places. Again, by their heinous action, they
have shown the evil face of terrorism."

The explosion went off next to the ayatollah's black Land Cruiser as he was
walking through the east gate of the mosque, his usual point of exit. He had
just delivered the sermon at the communal Friday prayer in which he denounced
the ousted president Saddam Hussein and his supporters for mounting attacks
against the US administration and other targets, including the UN headquarters
in Baghdad and the country's infrastructure.

Last Sunday, an assassination attempt was made on his uncle, Grand Ayatollah
Muhammed Said al-Hakim, who narrowly escaped death when a gas bomb exploded
against a wall outside his office, killing three people.

An angry crowd outside the mosque shouted slogans against Saddam and his
followers as rescuers searched the heaps of broken brick and twisted metal for
survivors. A witness said the car that exploded was of the type used as a taxi
in Iraq and that there was a burnt body inside, suggesting a suicide bomber.

Several shops and a restaurant were gutted, and victims were buried beneath the
rubble. Iraqi police supervised the rescue while a few US soldiers hung back.

Fearing riots, US forces have attempted to keep a low profile in the highly
volatile Shia holy cities of Najaf and Kerbala.

The ayatollah "met a martyr's fate along with his bodyguards", said Mr Mohsen
al-Hakim, the son and political adviser of the ayatollah's brother, Mr Abdel
Aziz al-Hakim.

Mr Ahmad Chalabi, the head of the Iraqi National Congress, blamed the bombing on
Saddam but castigated US forces for not making the area secure.

However, informed observers believe that yesterday's blast, Sunday's attempt on
the grand ayatollah, and the murder of a pro-Western Shia cleric, Shaikh Abdul
Majid al-Khoei, at the same mosque in April, stem from a bitter rivalry amongst
the country's prominent Shia clerics.

The death of the ayatollah is seen as a heavy blow to the US-occupation
administration.

In spite of his Iranian support, Ayatollah al-Hakim and his brother agreed to
work with Mr Bremer, and participate in the interim Governing Council he
appointed last month.

Ayatollah al-Hakim stood with the senior most Shia cleric, Ayatollah Ali
Sistani, in condemning the anti-US rhetoric of Sayyed Muqtada Sadr, a young
firebrand who has fired anti-occupation sentiments of underprivileged Shias
living in Iraq's main cities, Baghdad and Basra.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


                             984 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - Bulgaria Today

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday

Bulgarian Socialist Party leader blaims political adversaries for escalation of
anti-govt protests

LENGTH: 373  words


The chairman of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP), Sergey Stanishev, drew a
link between last night's clashes of anti-government protesters and police and
CEDB's return to parliament after more than a month of boycotting.

He turned down once again the possibility of the cabinet stepping down to meet
the protesters demand, claiming that it would be the leader of the center-right
CEDB, Boyko Borisov, who would benefit from early elections at the moment.

Stanishev was speaking at a special news conference on Wednesday, July 24,
organised after the nearly 12-hour blockade of the national assembly on Tuesday
evening and the early hours of Wednesday when anti-government demonstrators held
trapped in the building more than 100 officials and journalists. This was the
40th day of protests and the first time they were marked by violent clashes.

According to Stanishev, the budget revision proposal discussed in the parliament
yesterday was not the reason why protests turned violent. The government plans
to raise the deficit to 2%/GDP from current 1.3%/GDP and also raise the debt
ceiling by BGN 1bn (EUR 511mn) this year.

Meanwhile, numerous political parties reacted to events from last night by
asking for the cabinet's resignation. Among them were CEDB, DSB, UDF, National
Movement Simeon II and Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union. Earlier today, July
24, CITUB - a major trade union in Bulgaria also reiterated its demand for early
elections.

President Rossen Plevneliev has not yeat stated whether he plans to summon a
national security council. His position on the budget revision is also unknown.
Last night,  in a statement published on the institution's website, Plevneliev
asked the protesters to remain peaceful.

Protesters blocked the building of the parliament in the late afternoon on July
23 preventing MPs, cabinet members, journalists and staff from leaving. Tensions
escalated an hour before midnight when police tried to escort some of those
inside by a bus. The move obviously angered the crowed, clashes followed and
officials had to be returned inside the building and wait for another evacuation
attempt. They eventually were led out in the early hours on July 24 when the
siege was broken by overwhelming police force.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             986 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                        Intellinews - Slovakia This Week

                                 June 21, 2015

Slovakia sees violent protest against immigrants quotas

LENGTH: 263  words


Thousands protested in Bratislava on June 20 at an anti-immigration rally.
Around 140 were arrested after violence broke out.

The demonstration follows the government's alarmist response to the European
Commission's proposal that EU member states accept quotas of asylum seekers from
Syria and Eritrea that are flooding to Italy and Greece. Under the scheme,
Slovakia, a country with a population of around 5.5mn, would be asked to accept
785 immigrants over two-years.

Slovakia granted asylum to 650 people between its independence in 1993 and April
2015, according to interior ministry data quoted by TASR news agency.

The rally was organised under the slogan "Stop Islamisation of Europe! Together
against the dictate of Brussels, Europe for Europeans," Sme daily reports.
Several far-right organisations were present, including the People's Party-Our
Slovakia, led by neo-Nazi Banska Bystrica governor, Marian Kotleba, who hit the
headlines when elected last year.

Violence broke out towards the end of the rally with three policemen injured and
six police cars damaged. The protesters also clashed with a counter-rally. A
group of hundreds was also reported to have interrupted a cycling race organised
in the city.

Slovakia and most other CEE states - including neighbouring Hungary, Czech
Republic and Poland, has protested the EU proposal with anger. "We think that
what the European Commission is proposing is contrary to the conclusions of the
European Council, which spoke about the free movement principle," Slovak Prime
Minister Robert Fico said, according to Reuters.


LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             988 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                           Intellinews - Serbia Today

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday

Serbia needs international communities help to respond to the largest refugee
crisis since WWII

LENGTH: 719  words


Serbia needs the international communities help, both in terms of financial
support but also human resources and organisational assistance, to respond to
the largest refugee crisis since the end of the Second World War, Nikola
Kovacevic, a lawyer at Belgrade's Centre for Human Rights, told bne IntelliNews.

 There is no single state that can deal, on its own, with the rivers of people
that are constantly arriving, he added.

Since the conflicts in Syria and Iraq have escalated, thousands of people have
been entering Serbia on a daily basis, heading to Western Europe. Serbia has
been accepting refugees in accordance with international law and its capacities.
However, Hungary's newly erected border fence and tough stance has put
additional pressure on Serbia, since all refugees rejected by Hungary will be
sent back to Serbia.

Even though the country has improved its capacities, by establishing additional
registration points in refugee camps in Kanjiza and Presevo, close to the
borders with Hungary and Macedonia, where refugees enter and leave the country,
and by engaging students from the police academy, significant numbers of
refugees remain unregistered.

According to Kovacevic, Serbia barely succeeds in registering half of the
2,000-3,000 people who enter the country from Bulgaria and Macedonia, with the
reason being the lack of capacities.

Serbian officials reacted strongly after the Horgos1 border crossing between
Hungary and Serbia was closed on September 15, asking the EU to help and take
action to resolve the crisis.

Labor minister Aleksandar Vulin said that Serbia will accept refugees that
haven't tried to enter Hungary, press agency Tanjug reported on September 15.

The foreign affairs minister of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, called on the EU to find a
joint solution as, according to him, Serbia is not a collection center and
shouldn't ruin its relation with neighboring countries because of the refugee
crisis.

According to the latest Tanjug report from the bordering area, refugees are
protesting and calling "Germany Germany" and "Thank you, Serbia." The first
group of refugees from no-man's land were returned to Serbia on the evening of
September 15, Tanjug reports.

At the same time, refugees in Belgrade's city parks are waiting to move towards
Hungary, saying that one of their main concerns is that if they get registered
in Hungary they would have to stay there in accordance with the EU's Dublin
Regulation. Refugees are scared of the way the Hungarian government and police
could treat them.

More than 1,300 refugees were registered in the city of Presevo on September 15.
Bus transportation companies that operate in the region, and that transport
refugees from Presevo to Belgrade or Horgos, now offer transportation to Sid, a
city on the border with Croatia, which suggests the route refugees are taking
might change soon, with Croatia switched for Hungary. However, traveling via
Croatia is more complicate as the country is still not in the Schengen zone,
which means that refugees will have to pass one more border control as they get
ready to enter Slovenia and then Austria.

Milan Antonijevic, director at Belgrade based YUCOM, a committee of human rights
lawyers, says Serbia was dealing correctly with the ongoing refugee crisis prior
to the latest changes from Hungary. Talking to bne Intellinews, Antonijevic
underlined the importance of a comprehensive approach and joint response to
allocation of refugees, not only within the EU but also in all European
countries, including Serbia.

He warned that the capacities have to be extended and new refugee camps to be
opened, which includes the preparation of citizens for acceptance of refugees in
order to avoid any kind of conflicts or riots.

"This should be a kind of introduction of future improvement of the asylum
system of Serbia that should have much better segment related to social
inclusion of refugees that might want to stay in Serbia," Antonijevic said.

For Centre for Human Rights' Kovacevic, the best way for Serbia to help refugees
is to try to find a way to attract some of them to stay, and the first step
should be shortening the process of obtaining asylum, which can last a couple of
years.

Since the beginning of the year, some 160,000 people have passed through Serbia,
but only 500 have requested for asylum.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             989 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Serbia This Week

                               November 17, 2015

Fourth tear gas attack in Kosovan parliament, 17 policemen injured in clashes

LENGTH: 360  words


Seventeen policemen were injured in clashes between Kosovo's special police
units and protestors outside the parliament building in Pristina on November 17,
after opposition MPs staged another tear gas attack inside the building, a
government statement and local media reported.

Two of the policemen were seriously injured, while one protestor also suffered
injuries. Two people have so far been arrested in relation to the clashes,
broadcaster Klan Kosova reported.

This was the fourth tear gas attack in parliament in protest over the
EU-brokered landmark deals with Serbia and the border demarcation deal with
Montenegro. The opposition, led by the Vetevendosje (Self-Determination) party,
is, in particularly, against the establishment of a Serb community that will
receive greater rights in Kosovo. Opposition parties have announced that they
will stage another protest on November 28 against the deals.

"The situation is tense due to the government's insistence on reaching
agreements with Serbia and Montenegro," Vetevendosje said in a statement on its
website on November 17.

Protestors who gathered outside parliament in Pristina threw Molotov cocktails
and bottles at police officers, Klan Kosova reported.

Clashes also took place in Skenderbeg and Ibrahim Rugova squares in Pristina.
Police used tear gas to disperse the crowd.

A video posted on Facebook by Vetevendosje's lawmakers shows its member and
lawmaker Albin Kurti, who set off the tear gas device in parliament, being given
medical aid. The party said that Kurti had been brutally beaten by police.

Following the tear gas incident, parliament resumed its session and adopted the
draft budget for 2016, with 79 votes for and one against, the assembly said in a
statement.

The two opposition parties that have joined forces with Vetevendosje are the
Alliance for the Future of Kosovo and the Initiative for Kosovo. The opposition
block blames the government, led by Prime Minister Isa Mustafa, for decisions
that will supposedly lead to further ethnic division in the country, and also
for corruption scandals and poor economic performances.

Kosovo unilaterally declared independence from Serbia in 2008.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             994 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                         Intellinews - Serbia This Week

                                 June 15, 2016

Serbia's Vucic praises "super" protests, but slams journalists for pressure on
police

LENGTH: 399  words


The head of Serbia's caretaker government Aleksandar Vucic said on June 14 the
fact that recent protests in Belgrade and Novi Sad were peaceful and democratic
speaks well of Serbia. However, he lashed out at journalists, who he accused of
putting "unlawful pressure" on prosecutors and the police.

Thousands of citizens took place in three protests in Belgrade in May and June
over the overnight demolition of buildings in the Savamala district by a group
of masked men. Protests have also taken place in Novi Sad over wide-ranging
personnel changes at public broadcaster RTV.

Vucic described the protests as "super" and said he personally had no problem
with them - although he did not agree with the motives. "There have been no
riots or problems and I am happy to be the prime minister of such a country," he
told a press conference on June 14.

He has also sought to distance himself from the Savamala demolitions. On June 8,
he accused top Belgrade officials of being behind the demolition of the
buildings and said those responsible would be brought to justice.

However, on June 14, Vucic reiterated that he would not name the top Belgrade
city officials that he said were responsible for the Savamala demolitions. Vucic
added he would not allow people close to him to be subjected to "hunts", B92
reported.

"[S]ome would now like to strike at [Interior Minister] Nebojsa Stefanovic,"
Vucic added, accusing some journalists of being politically motivated and
exerting unlawful pressure on the prosecution and the police.

"You won't be dismissing him, because while I am the prime minister those are my
decisions, even if it means I will no longer be the prime minister. Now someone
thought that Vucic is scared and that 500 people can be replaced, and let's see
who's close to Vucic. That won't happen ... We are going to clean up our
problems and the mess our people made, and determine the responsibility of every
kind - but you will not stop us from pointing out the responsibility of those
[who committed] real crimes," said Vucic.

Messages like this are likely to encourage people in Serbia's two largest towns
to continue their protests, as memories of the autocratic government under
Slobodan Milosevic are still fresh. Milosevic held onto power for a decade
despite wars, the 100-day Nato bombing and the catastrophic economic situation,
and was only ousted in 2000 after massive protests.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             995 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

What the US needs to win peace in Iraq

                              July 4, 2003 Friday

Janadas Devan


FOREIGN MATTERS

ONE of the first things General Dwight D. Eisenhower did after the allied forces
conquered Germany in World War II, was order Germans to be paraded through Nazi
concentration camps so they could see them for themselves. In 1945, few
Americans believed that ordinary Germans and Japanese were innocent of the
heinous crimes that Adolf Hitler and Hideki Tojo perpetrated. By definition, all
Germans and Japanese were guilty until proven innocent. That was one reason why
these occupied peoples took great care to cooperate with their occupiers.

Another major reason was that by the war's end, they had been thoroughly
traumatised and savaged. The fire-bombings of Dresden, Hamburg, Berlin, Tokyo -
not to mention, Hiroshima and Nagasaki - were brutal and merciless. What Hitler
had inflicted on London and Coventry, and Tojo on Pearl Harbor, Franklin
Roosevelt and Winston Churchill inflicted on Germany and Japan 100 times over.

I will never forget how the late Professor Seizaburo Sato, a doyen among
Japanese foreign policy experts and adviser to former prime minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone, described to me his experiences in conquered Tokyo. 'All this was
rubble,' he said, his hand sweeping the vista of contemporary Tokyo outside his
window. 'The few buildings left standing were occupied by Americans. We survived
looking for scraps to eat among the broken stones,' he said with tears in his
eyes. He was explaining to me why Japan must never break its alliance with the
United States. The US helped rebuild what it destroyed - thus his gratitude -
but I couldn't help feeling that, for him, the destruction was as salutary as
the rebuilding.

Fast-forward 58 years later to present-day Iraq, and hear what a 46-year old
Iraqi told The New York Times recently: 'Don't talk to me about Saddam Hussein.
The Americans are in charge of everything here. They could have brought
generators in here within 24 hours.'

One reason the US is having such a difficult time in Iraq is that the war didn't
cow Iraqis into submission. Everything in the war was surgical from the
beginning: the bombing, the propaganda, the guilt. No collateral damage in the
precision strikes - only military targets. Only Saddam and his deck of cards
were guilty - ordinary Iraqis were innocent. The Americans came not to conquer -
they came to liberate. It was war as affirmative action.

The result: Ordinary Iraqis now feel a sense of entitlement. Where's the
electricity and water? Where's the democracy? Food, housing, schools, jobs?
Since none of these is forthcoming, they blame the liberators and they riot.

The US, of course, couldn't have fought the war in any other way. The Russians
can do things differently in Chechnya but the Americans can't. No US president
would say (or think) what Russian President Vladimir Putin said he would do (and
did) in Chechnya: 'I will rub the Chechens out in the toilet.' Modern American
wars have to be political exercises from the word go - battles for hearts and
minds, as much as armed conflicts.

But it is not easy to fight such wars. US forces are now not only battling
Saddam loyalists in Iraq, but they are also engaging Syrians, Saudis, Yemenis,
Algerians, Lebanese, even Chechens. Fighting the US in Iraq is becoming a jihad
for Arabs.

To defeat such groups, the US must use its overwhelming firepower. But if it
uses it indiscriminately, it will lose the ground. That ground cannot be won
unless the US delivers the goods - water, electricity and democracy, among
others. But it cannot deliver the goods unless there is security. But to deliver
security, it must fight. But if it fights too fiercely, it will prime the ground
for a jihad. And so on, the impossible logic of affirmative action wars.

The US will probably square this circle somehow, but it is not going to be easy.
Rather late in the day, the administration is now trying to persuade 24
countries to provide troops, both to relieve US forces as well as put a more
international face on the occupation. Critics who had urged a primary role for
the United Nations now appear to be realists, not wimps.

The main question of the moment, however, is: Will the US cut and run in the
face of mounting casualties - an average of one US soldier killed per day since
May 1, when the 'offensive' phase of the war was declared over? President George
W. Bush gave his answer on Tuesday: 'The rise of Iraq as an example of
moderation and democracy and prosperity is a massive and long-term undertaking.
And the restoration of that country is critical to the defeat of terror and
radicalism throughout the Middle East.' He is set on civilisation change, and he
won't give up.

But what about the rest of America? Shifts in US public opinion are impossible
to predict, but two things should be borne in mind: One, it is not true only
conservatives supported the war. A bipartisan coalition supported it, though
many in that coalition might have disagreed with Mr Bush's conduct of affairs.
And two, the glue that holds this coalition together - Sept 11 - will not become
unstuck easily.

As a senior Asian diplomat told this newspaper recently: 'It was evident on Sept
11, 2001 that America had changed in a bipartisan way. That is among the reasons
why we have done much of what we have done since,' he said, explaining why his
country chose to support the US.

Iraqis, too, will have to come to the same conclusion. The US won the peace
following World War II in part because Germans and Japanese learnt of its
determination during the war. It can only win the peace in this war if Iraqis
are convinced of its determination in the post-war war. That is not easy to do,
for it is difficult to fight battles and establish peace at one and the same
time.

SECTION: Commentary

LENGTH: 961 words

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


                             996 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             March 18, 2008 Tuesday

G2: Arts: Music: I prefer a riot: US bands are polite, punctual and dull - give
me a British shambles any day, says American expat Caroline Sullivan

BYLINE: Caroline Sullivan

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 903 words


Earlier this month, the promoter of the Isle of Wight festival had a go at Lily
Allen. Miffed that Allen had cancelled her appearance at this year's event, John
Giddings said: "I think the poor girl has got a few problems. Unfortunately,
England, although it produces good girl singer-songwriters, they don't seem to
be capable of running the course. These artists don't seem to have a
responsibility to their audience." And he had a few choice words for Morrissey,
who pulled out of the festival three years ago: "(He) claimed he was never
booked and he told us he didn't have a drummer.

I offered him Phil Collins, and he still said he wouldn't do it."

Giddings pointed to the one thing Allen and Morrissey have in common - their
Englishness - to explain their flakiness. Unfair as that might seem (Morrissey
was never going to be swayed by the offer of Phil Collins, and it's far too
early in Allen's career to judge her ability to "run the course"), Giddings was
only voicing a very common presumption, both here and abroad, that British
artists are shambolic and slapdash. When you compare them to the more successful
American acts - ultra-professional, can-do - this attitude is even more
pronounced.

If you were to devise a rule of thumb for distinguishing between British and
American bands, the Brits will be the ones behaving as if everything were a bit
of a joke, while the Americans will be checking the midweek chart on their
BlackBerrys. At last month's Brit awards, Arctic Monkeys, who won awards for
best group and best album, showed their gratitude by knocking the students of
the Brit performing arts school, who were standing in the audience in front of
them. The Mercury award-winning Damon "Badly Drawn Boy" Gough is famous for an
on-stage style that ranges from the amateurish to the completely ramshackle,
while hotly tipped band Foals recently told a BBC interviewer that they don't
know how to play chords.

For my money, this is what makes British music great. It's irresponsible,
innovative, quirky, piss-taking, unique, brilliant. Of course, there are
exceptions - the more successful a band gets, the more likely they are to lose
their quirkiness and acquire the discipline and drive that characterises so many
American artists. So Coldplay and James Blunt are unlikely to cancel at short
notice - but they make music as if they were service providers, and their fans
clients. Where's the fun in that?

I grew up in New Jersey, so I have firsthand exposure to the American way of
making music. In the US, it's always been a point of pride for even local bands
to excel at playing their instruments; the British concept of inspired
amateurishness would be laughed out of town. Professionalism was the goal, and
everything else - cynicism, irreverence, a coherent fashion sense (all qualities
that come as standard over here) - was an afterthought. Talk about dull. Even
now that the internet has changed the mindset of younger US groups, with
alternative bands such as Tilly and the Wall and Clap Your Hands Say Yeah
realising that it's OK to be a mess so long as you're an interesting mess, they
still lack the spark that underpins your typical UK act.

American critic Scott Plagenhoef, of the influential US music site Pitchfork,
agrees. "There's a basic difference in values between American and English
artists," he says. "The DIY aesthetic is more inclusive in the UK: 'We're on
stage, why don't you get on stage, too?' A lot of British people think they can
just do it. In the US, we're more suspicious if it looks too easy."

It was this inclusive British aesthetic that spawned punk in the 70s, indie in
the 80s, dance music in the 90s and art rock in the 00s; it keeps the UK music
scene overflowing with ideas. Tahita Bulmer, frontwoman of New Young Pony Club,
tells me she thinks this creativity comes from not believing the hype. "American
bands can press the flesh and do the meet-and-greets, and not feel like they're
losing any sense of self," she says. "Whereas British bands are bound up in that
English ideal about authenticity and not blowing their own trumpet. That makes
them feel uncomfortable with hype and

take the piss out of it." Hence the

Monkeys turning up to the Brits dressed as farmers. It wouldn't happen in
America, and that's America's loss.

Musician-turned-writer Sid Griffin has worked on both sides of the Atlantic,
fronting California country-rockers the Long Ryders before moving to London in
the 90s. "American bands come to Europe to tour and they're thrilled to be
here," he says. "But they're also on time and shake hands and try to do gigs
professionally, in the hope of being able to come back and build on it. Young
English bands would just be partying and partying. But the Brits' ideas are
better. It's about innovation over here. You have ideas to spare here, and in
America we adhere to tradition." After 16 years in London, he has come to admire
the way things are done here. "English bands know from the beginning how they're
going to sound and look - it's discussed before the first rehearsal."

Not every artist with a UK passport has been touched by brilliance - but in my
experience you're more likely

to find something worth cherishing among the British mix of passion and
self-deprecating insouciance.

I, for one, would rather a shambles - even a Babyshambles - over professionalism
every time.

Agree or disagree? Have your say

at blogs.guardian.co.uk/arts

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             997 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 30, 2008 Tuesday

National: Diary

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 268 words


* William Hague led colleagues in mocking Labour for having a projected budget
deficit for 2008 which is worse than every country "except Hungary, Egypt and
Pakistan". The figures came from an Intelligence Unit item in the September 20
issue of the Economist, top Tory sources say. How stands the matter now Pakistan
has a new regime, Egypt suffered food riots and the US may pile on $700bn of red
ink? According to the Institute for Fiscal Studies, the latest OECD data (itself
out of date) shows the US in the red by 5.21% of GNP, Finland by 3.85%, Poland
by 3.60%, followed by the UK at 3.59% and Hungary at 3.50%. France comes in at
3.25%, Italy at half that level of debt - which must put the exercise in doubt.

* Former Ulster Unionist leader Lord David Trimble and his wife, Daphne, are
resting their heads for nowt in central Birmingham this week. Not as guests of
admirers, or even of Ian Paisley, but because they own a narrowboat. They moor
close by. Trimble's presence confirms gossip that the ancient alliance between
the Conservatives and Unionist parties, which foundered over Heath's direct rule
from London, may be revived within six months.

* The people running the conference have come up with another wheeze: life-size
cardboard cutouts of David Miliband holding his fave fruit and crying "bananas".
Beneath each cut-out is a box of bananas for passersby to take.

* Before last night's Guardian debate to pick the Greatest Tory Hero, David
Cameron ventured the opinion that he'd have backed Sir Robert Peel. He split the
party in 1846, but was a moderniser and won urban seats. Michael White

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             998 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

US envoy to India resigns

LENGTH: 350 words


Text of report by Press Trust of India (PTI)

New Delhi, 31 March: In a sudden development, US Ambassador to India Nancy
Powell Monday [31 March] resigned in the midst of general elections in India in
which Narendra Modi is perceived to be a front runner for the post of Prime
Minister.

The announcement of her resignation to her colleagues in the US mission here
Monday came a week after media reports here that she may be shipped out by the
Obama Administration to "clean the state" with India. Powell has been in India
for less than three years.

"US Ambassador to India Nancy J Powell announced in a US Mission Town Hall
meeting March 31 that she has submitted her resignation to President Obama and,
as planned for some time, will retire to her home in Delaware before the end of
May," an announcement in the US Embassy website said tonight.

Embassy sources did not want to hazard a guess on the decision of the
67-year-old career service officer to quit her post and return home at a time
when India is in an election process and Washington is also deeply interested in
its outcome.

There was media speculation a week ago that Powell would be replaced with a
political appointee as an attempt by the Obama administration to "clean the
state" with India.

The report had said Powell had dragged her heels on meeting Gujarat Chief
Minister Narendra Modi and was perceived as being "too close" to the UPA's
foreign policy establishment.

However, when Washington decided to warm upto Modi, who is perceived as one of
the front runners for the prime minister's post, Powell met Modi on February 13,
ending a nine-year-old boycott of the Gujarat leader on the issue of 2002
post-Godhra riots.

The US move marked a u-turn in its earlier stand of having nothing to do with
Modi, whose visa it cancelled in 2005 under a domestic law on the issue of
"severe violations of religious freedom". Ever since it had refused to review
its policy.

Earlier, the EU and Britain had also ended their boycott of Modi and warmed up
to him in the run up to the polls.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1730gmt 31 Mar 14

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             999 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

Turkish commentary sees US riots as threat to democracy

LENGTH: 705 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Yeni Safak website on 20 August

[Commentary by Erdogan's Aide Yalcin Akdogan writing under the pseudonym Yasin
Dogan: "We Will Not Throw Obama to the Wolves"]

Obama's test with the Neo-Cons continues...

In his first term in office Obama was held back in many fields by the Neo-Con
tutelage hanging over his head like the Sword of Damocles. In his second term
they continue to shadow his every move.

The Israeli government's impositions and those by its lobbyists have harmed the
United States regional image in the Middle East and the Islamic countries.

The Egyptian coup, Israel's massacres, Al-Maliki's bigotry that have taken his
country to the edge, Syria's turning into a festering wound and other such
incidents have all led to an increase in anti-Western sentiment. The West has
not only become a crippled camel, it has also suffered a serious loss of trust.

The latest racist incidents aim to make life tough for a leader like Obama who
is seen as a source of pride and a symbol of freedom for the African American
groups in the United States.

Even those who have been critical of some of Obama's policies and his
performance are unable to stomach his being neutralized by these kinds of plots.
To try and make the administration a lame duck and to manipulate it through
these kinds of political engineering operations primarily shows a lack of
respect for the people.

If a person who watches these incidents on TV at a village coffee house even can
see the game that is being played out here and can say, "Stand tall, do not
cave" and "We will not have Obama thrown to the wolves" I hope that the American
people are able to read this picture correctly.

Ever since he came to power Prime Minister Erdogan has been combating the
tutelage chambers that are trying to fire up the streets using direct or
indirect meddling. Most recently, the Gezi riots and the 17 December street
riots and perception operations were aimed at putting pressure on the government
or toppling it. Erdogan managed to stay on his feet with the large support of
the people in the face of all this foreign and domestic meddling. He succeeded
in not giving in to the centres of tutelage power centres.

It is a great source of strength when a leader has such faithful masses behind
him.

If hundreds of thousands of people meet you at the airport when things are at
their worst and pin all their hopes for the future on you and fill the rally
squares out of loyalty to you, then no amount of fancy footwork is going to trip
you up, no frame up can ever stick and no ploy will ever make you tumble.

Any who find these comments akin to conspiracy theories should take a look at
how many of the regime changes in the region took place with or without a ballot
box.

As there are still leaders who relinquish their seats at the first little tremor
or who give in to tutelage the perception managers and political designers are
still able to work. They will never cease their efforts to create a global
tutelage order.

The toppling of administrations through the use of street riots in many
countries recently and the Arab countries being dragged into authoritarian
tendencies is all the work of these interest barons.

I wonder if the intelligence organizations that eavesdrop on other countries are
simply satisfying their curiosity without meddling in them?

Hobbling other countries in international competition. Holding back a growing
country. Sabotaging giant projects. Are these not part of intelligence
communities' fields of endeavour?

Stirring up trouble along countries' social fault lines, and making Alevi-Sunni
or Shia-Sunni discrimination in some countries or white-coloured discrimination
in others. Are these not part of political engineering's field of endeavour?

Be it from within or without any and every attempt to control administration or
topple them is an attack on global democracy, law and peace, and a joint threat
to everyone.

The trust placed in their leader by the Turkish people plus their strong bond of
affection for him leaves no quarter for psychological operations. Thanks to this
Turkey continues to be a bastion of stability in the region.

Source: Yeni Safak website, Istanbul, in Turkish 0000 gmt 20 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1000 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday

Role in 1984 anti-Sikh riots: US court reserves order in case against Kamal Nath

BYLINE: IP Singh

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 346 words


JALANDHAR: A US federal court on Wednesday reserved its order in the case filed
against Union minister Kamal Nath over his alleged role in leading a mob during
anti-Sikh riots in November 1984 in Delhi.

Judge Robert W Sweet of the US federal court for the southern district of New
York heard arguments in the case.

According to Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) attorney Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who is
pursuing the petition, Nath failed to produce "statement of interest" from US
department of state in support of his claim for diplomatic immunity.

After hearing the arguments from both sides, lasting over 45 minutes, Judge
Sweet reserved his ruling.

The plaintiffs requested the court to issue a default judgment against Nath for
failing to respond within 21 days after receiving the summons on April 6, 2010.
SFJ has already demanded a "jury trial" during which plaintiffs would submit
documentary evidence proving participation of Nath and other leaders of Congress
in November 1984 Sikh genocide.

In the arguments on Wednesday, plaintiffs emphasized that despite having
knowledge about the case and openly acknowledging the receipt of summons and
complaint, Nath did not respond within 21 days as required by the law. In fact,
Nath completely ignored the summons till August 2010 when plaintiffs moved for
entry of default judgment against him, the plaintiff's counsel argued in the
court.

In his motion filed on June 24, 2011, Nath had claimed that he was entitled to
immunity from prosecution in the United States and that no one had ever served
him with summons and complaints during his April 2010 visit to New York.

SFJ and other Sikh human rights activists have been actively campaigning with US
government to reject Nath's request for immunity and instead prosecute him under
Human Rights Enforcement Act of 2009.

Sikh community is also holding a protest rally on September 24 during PM Singh's
address to the UN General Assembly, demanding sacking of Nath from cabinet and
prosecution of Congress leaders involved in November 1984 killing of Sikhs.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1001 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                       March 2, 2001 Friday Final Edition

Food flies first, then punches;
 racial tension cited in brawl

SOURCE: AP

SECTION: World; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: El Paso, Tex.

A food fight escalated into a brawl involving 400 students Thursday, injuring
some and resulting in 13 arrests, students and police said.

Some students at Andress High School said the fight was racially motivated.

Police arrested 13 people, and some students were treated for minor injuries at
the scene in northeast El Paso. Two girls were transported to hospitals with
minor injuries.

A police statement said 11 students have been charged with rioting, one with
possession of a prohibited weapon -- a knife -- and one with disorderly conduct.

Police responded to reports of a fight about 12:20 p.m. and the situation
escalated after some students refused to return to class, said police Cmdr.
Sylvia Aguilar, who was at the scene.

By 1 p.m., police had surrounded the area and closed a road next to the school
while a police helicopter circled the area. More than 100 El Paso law officers
responded to the riot.

School officials cancelled classes for the day after order was restored.

According to the Texas Education Agency, the school is 55 per cent Hispanic, 27
per cent white and 16 per cent black.

One student said taunts were exchanged among black and Hispanic students.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Crime

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1002 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                       March 2, 2001 Friday Final Edition

Pay Oklahoma race-riot survivors, inquiry urges: 300 killed in one of bloodiest
incidents of racial violence

SOURCE: Times of London

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Top Copy; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 627 words

DATELINE: Washington

An inquiry into the 1921 Tulsa race riot, one of the bloodiest chapters in the
history of racial violence in America, during which as many as 300 people were
killed, has called for reparations to be paid to the survivors and to
descendants of the victims.

The decision by the Tulsa Race Riot Commission immediately ignited debate in
Oklahoma over whether to meet the demand. It raised the prospect of a flood of
similar calls for restitution by those targeted in other deadly clashes.

After years of investigation and deliberation the commission concluded that
reparations "will stand as symbols that fully acknowledge and finally discharge
a collective responsibility." But the politicians who must approve the payments
were reluctant to make a commitment to do so.

Eighty years ago there was growing tension in Tulsa over the growth of a black
middle class. An accusation that a black boy had raped a white girl was enough
for the riot to erupt.

The 200-page report suggests that Dick Rowland, a shoe-shine boy, had merely
accidentally tripped Sarah Page, a white lift operator, provoking her to scream.
He was arrested and a mob of more than 1,000 white men gathered outside the jail
where he was held as talk of a lynching raced through the segregated city.

Black men armed with guns congregated at the scene and after shots were
exchanged the white mob stormed into the prosperous black neighbourhood of
Greenwood.

Churches, businesses and more than 1,200 homes were reduced to smoking ruins and
many blacks were shot as they fled or were taken to detainment centres. Some
whites also died in the violence but the vast majority of the casualties were
black. The report said that the final death toll will never be known but could
be as high as 300.

"I remember quite a bit. Gunshots, fire, smoke. People running, crying,
praying," said Joe Burns, a commission member who was five when the riot broke
out.

The commission put the blame not only on those who pulled the triggers but also
on those who stood by silently, concluding that "law enforcement officials
deputised white men who contributed to the violence."

The report also said that the government was to blame for failing to prevent the
violence or punishing those responsible. "Not one of these criminal acts was
then or ever has been prosecuted or punished by the government at any level,
municipal, county, state or federal," the report said.

The commission has no legal authority to assign culpability or assess damages
and did not specify reparations. Instead it recommended a range of payments from
a memorial and scholarships to direct payments to survivors and their
descendants.

Oklahoma Gov. Frank Keating expressed shame and embarrassment, calling the riot
"an unforgivable, unexplainable part of our history" but he stopped short of
calling for the payment of reparations to the 120 survivors of the riots still
living. "If you can show liability on the part of the state, city and county, I
do support reparations to survivors," he said.

This will be a matter for the state legislature to interpret, and members were
reluctant to support restitution. "I think we need to be very cautious on making
any commitments on how money is spent in the state of Oklahoma," said Larry
Adair, the Democratic House Speaker.

Robert Milacek, a Republican state senator and a member of the commission who
refused to back the report, said reparations would be a mistake. "It's a
terrible precedent," he said.

George Monroe, 84, was five when he hid under the bed as his house was set
alight. He said he was unhappy there was no commitment to reparations. "Somebody
has to pay something. My father lost everything, his business, our home," he
told the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1003 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      April 13, 2001 Friday Final Edition

Cincinnati under curfew to quell riots: Mayor declares state of emergency;
 more violence feared

SOURCE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: World; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: Cincinnati

Following three nights of rioting, looting and gunfire, the mayor here issued a
"proclamation of emergency" and imposed a citywide curfew Thursday.

But the action appeared only to inflame the racial tensions that erupted when a
white police officer shot and killed an unarmed black man.

In a scene reminiscent of 1968, when racial violence swept through this Ohio
River city following the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., Mayor Charles
Luken stood before community leaders, police and reporters and declared that
Cincinnati has "a very legitimate and real problem with race relations" but said
his first priority was restoring peace.

As evening descended and news of the 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew spread, however,
many blacks railed against the crackdown.

"They are restricting black folks once again. They're setting rules on us but
they're not setting rules on the police force," said Yvette Hall, 25, at a rally
led by NAACP president Kweisi Mfume. "Saturday, when they bury that boy there's
going to be hell to pay."

She referred to Timothy Thomas, 19, who was shot to death after a police chase
last Saturday. He was the fourth black slain by Cincinnati police since
November.

Mfume found himself nearly alone at the rally of 200 in calling for people to
respect the curfew, and urging them not to break the law even if they don't
agree with it. Many at the gathering outside the New Friendship Baptist Church
near downtown said tempers were rising and still had a way to go.

The curfew will remain in place as long as necessary, city officials said,
making it illegal to be on the street unless traveling to or from work. And as
the rally broke up -- early because of the curfew -- police in full riot gear
began fanning out across the city to enforce it.

The streets were quiet early Thursday evening. Taxis stopped running,
restaurants shut down, and the local Roman Catholic Archdiocese cancelled its
popular Good Friday midnight service, which typically draws thousands of
worshippers, for the first time since the tradition began in 1859.

The city police were augmented by state troopers, and officials left open the
possibility of calling in National Guard troops.

The turmoil began Monday, two days after 26-year-old police officer Steve Roach
shot and killed Thomas at the end of a dark alley following a foot chase.

Thomas had 14 warrants for his arrest, all for misdemeanors and most for traffic
violations. The most serious charge was for receiving stolen property.

When Roach tried to arrest Thomas late Saturday in the predominantly black
Over-the-Rhine neighbourhood, Thomas fled.

As Roach chased him, Thomas turned and appeared to be reaching for a weapon.
Roach fired, striking Thomas in the chest. No weapon was found.

Seeking to quiet critics who said police were not being forthcoming about their
investigation of the case, the department on Thursday released video taken from
a patrol car camera during the pursuit of Thomas. The video, shaky, blurry, dark
and taken from a cruiser speeding around a corner, revealed little. The
accompanying audio provided one grim detail: a single tell-tale "pop."

Police said they have completed an internal investigation into Thomas's death
and turned the case over to Hamilton County Prosecutor Michael Allen, who will
likely convene a grand jury next week.

Since protests erupted into full-blown rioting on Monday, 86 people have been
arrested for looting, arson, assaults and other violence, mostly in black parts
of town.

More than 60 have been injured, including at least 25 taken to hospitals, police
said.

If racial tensions in the city only burst into the headlines this week, they've
been growing for some time in the city of 331,000, which is 46 percent black.

The dispute, most residents seem to agree, is less between blacks and whites
than between blacks and the police department.

Since 1995, police have killed 15 black suspects. No white suspects were killed.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: AP; NAACP president Kweisi Mfume, second from left, is
shown where Timothy Thomas was shot by police over the weekend, in the
Over-the-Rhine district of Cincinnati on Thursday. Colour Photo: Journal Stock;
(Timothy) Thomas

TYPE: Crime

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1004 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                       July 15, 2001 Sunday Final Edition

Genoa readies body bags for G-8 summit: Trouble expected when leaders meet

SOURCE: The Sunday Telegraph

SECTION: News; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 470 words

Italy's prime minister has ordered unprecedented security measures -- including
the purchase of 200 body bags -- to prepare for violent protests at this week's
G-8 summit in Genoa.

In a tense build-up to an international summit, the Italian government fears a
violent backlash to events at last month's European Union summit in Gothenburg,
where one protester was shot by police during riots.

The United States has already laid plans to remove President George Bush from
his hotel to the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise in the Gulf of Genoa should
serious rioting begin.

More than 100,000 protesters are expected to converge on the city, many intent
on breaking through to the summit area.

Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has placed his authority on the line to ensure
a peaceful summit, supervising the most elaborate security measures ever seen
for a G8 meeting.

In addition to the body bags, he has ordered that a temporary morgue be set up
in the city's hospital.

A missile defence system has been installed at Genoa airport to deter airborne
terrorist attack. The land-based rockets have a range of nine miles and were
previously deployed along the Adriatic coast during the NATO conflict with
Yugoslavia.

Other than Bush, most G8 leaders will be accommodated on the liner European
Vision, moored in Genoa harbour. It will be guarded by military frogmen.

"We will do anything necessary to allow this summit to take place without
disturbance," said a spokesman for the Italian Interior Ministry.

There are fears that some protesters may already have penetrated the Red Zone
where the summit will take place.

The summit begins on Friday, but from Wednesday the city will effectively be
under siege. Italian State Railways announced last Friday that both of Genoa's
main stations would close two days in advance, in an attempt to keep protesters
away from the harbour area where the summit is being held.

The heavy precautions have angered protest groups. Vittorio Agnoletto, the
spokesman for the Genoa Social Forum, which is co-ordinating more than 1,000
anti-summit groups, said: "If closing the stations is supposed to be a challenge
to us, then we can tell them right now that we are going to get there whatever
happens."

Across the Internet, organizations have threatened violence. The German
anarchist group, Autonomen, has promised disruption using "whatever means
possible."

Luca Casarini, the leader of an Italian anarchist group called the White
Overalls, said the group had studied police tactics for the past month. "We know
their strategy and how to defeat it," he said. "We will be using some highly
unconventional methods and when we storm the city's off-limit zone, we will be
ready to defend ourselves. This is not going to be a small conflict. This is a
revolution."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1005 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                      March 26, 2000 Sunday Final Edition

27 injured in riot at funeral for black shot by N.Y. police

SOURCE: Reuters

SECTION: World; Pg. F10

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: New York

New York City police charged into a crowd of bottle-throwing protesters Saturday
at the funeral of an unarmed Haitian-American shot by police and 23 officers and
four civilians were injured in the melee.

Twenty-seven people were arrested, a police spokeperson said.

The violence that erupted at the funeral of Patrick Dorismond, 26, underscored
the tension between New York's black communities and police. Officers have
killed at least three unarmed black men, including Dorismond, in 13 months.

His shooting by an undercover narcotics officer March 16 brought renewed charges
of police violence under Republican Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Democratic party
candidate Hillary Clinton has made officers' tactics an issue as she battles
Giuliani for a U.S. Senate seat.

"If Patrick could speak to you, he would say: 'Because you're young and black,
avoid being on the street corners for too long,' " Msgr. Rollin Darbouze told
mourners at Holy Cross church in Brooklyn.

In front of the church, protesters ripped up a U.S. flag that had draped
Dorismond's coffin, burned it and shouted "police assassins" and other abuse at
officers.

Shortly after the funeral ended, scuffles broke out between angry protesters
jammed together with ranks of officers outside the church in the heart of
Brooklyn's Caribbean community.

Protesters began throwing bottles and steel barricades at police. Hundreds of
officers charged into the crowd with pepper spray and night sticks, clearing the
streets.

The crowd, with marchers waving Haitian flags and bearing placards condemning
Giuliani and police, accompanied Dorismond's hearse three kilometres from a
funeral home to the church.

The mayor praised officers' handling of the crowd, saying they had shown
restraint in the face of abuse.

"Unfortunately, when you allow demagogues to take over for political and
divisive purposes, the American flag gets shredded and burned, steel barricades
are hurled and bottles are thrown," he said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: AP; Marie Dorismond, the mother of Patrick Dorismond, is
escorted out of the Andrew Torregrossa & Sons funeral home Saturday in the
Brooklyn borough of New York before her son's funeral.

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1006 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    November 18, 2000 Saturday Final Edition

Riot breaks out at anti-trade protest

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: World; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: Cincinnati

An anti-trade rally outside a meeting of U.S. and European business leaders
turned violent Friday when a small group of protesters broke off from the rally,
smashing storefront windows, spray painting graffiti and overturning trash cans.

The demonstrators said the Trans Atlantic Business Dialogue focus was on
eliminating trade barriers without concern for people or the environment, and
the business group would exert undue influence on legislation globally.

About 300 protesters marched more than 1.6 kilometres through the city, ending
up across the street from a hotel where the business group was meeting.

Demonstrators, carrying signs with messages such as People Before Profits and
Corporate Crime Kills, chanted slogans that often drowned one another out .

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business; Brief

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1007 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                              North London Journal

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

Readers' Letters

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 920 words


2011 has been a difficult year here in Haringey.

We were all rocked by the riots this summer, and have been working tirelessly
ever since to support Tottenham in the wake of the devastation.

In addition to the challenges borne out of the riots, the council has been
facing the reality of trying to deliver the services we know you rely on with a
greatly reduced budget.



Central government cuts to public sector funding mean we have had to make
savings of more than £40million this year. It's just not possible to save that
kind of money without it having an impact on services.

There will be further savings to find in 2012, but everyone at Haringey Council
is committed to giving residents the very best, and we will continue to work
hard to minimise the impact of the cuts - especially on the most vulnerable in
our communities.

Throughout the new year, our focus will be on making sure that we target
resources at areas of greatest needs and listen to your priorities as we make
spending and saving decisions.

We will continue in our endeavours to transform Tottenham - with hands on
support, regeneration, and planning briefs to deliver a successful and vibrant
future for the whole area.

The silver lining to 2011's difficulties has been the overwhelming support and
community spirit shown by so many of you, for which we are really grateful.

I look forward to working closely with residents, community groups, businesses,
students, children and families in Haringey as we strive to make sure that 2012
is the success story you all deserve it to be.

Wishing you all a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Cllr Claire Kober, Leader of Haringey Council.

In August this year, rioters tore through north London causing damage to shops,
buildings, businesses and homes.

Residents witnessed distressing scenes of looting, arson, violence and vandalism
in events that shocked the community.

The Riots Communities and Victims Panel was set up by the Deputy Prime Minister
in response to these riots.

Our job is to look at the reasons why they happened and to see what could have
been done differently to prevent them from happening, both now and in the
future.

We have recently published our interim report '5 days in August'. This sets out
our initial findings since our work began in the middle of September.

Since then, we have been travelling the country - to date, we have visited 20
different areas - and have spoken with thousands of people who were affected by
the riots - as well as some who were not.

On our visit to Tottenham we heard from shopkeepers, local residents and
community organisations who shared their views and experiences of the riots with
us.

We also held an open public meeting which was attended by over 200 local
residents.

In Haringey alone, there were 303 recorded crimes over the five days of rioting,
as well-known stores, local independent businesses and homes were targeted and
vandalised.

By directly engaging with individuals in affected communities, we were able to
build a picture as to why the riots might have happened.

We spoke to communities and victims and heard how 'young people are angry.
Violence was the quick answer' and it was an 'excuse to be noticed'.

We also heard the perspective of those who were involved in the riots who
described the scenes as being 'like a zombie movie' and a 'chance to make
history'.

However, the causes and motivations behind the riots are complex.

Our report shows that there seems to be a link between deprivation and rioting,
that a lack of hopes and dreams amongst young people seems to make them feel
that they have no stake in society and that the failure of basic values may have
contributed to the situation.

But these are just our initial findings. We want to know what you think the
reasons were for the riots that swept across the country, leading to between
13,000 - 15,000 people being actively involved in rioting on a national scale.

Do you think it was down to deprivation and lack of opportunity - or do you
think these were just excuses made by people who wanted to get their hands on
the latest gadget or pair of trainers for free?

What do you think the motivations were?

Read our report and let us know what you think.

All views will be listened to and will shape the recommendations of our final
report which is due out in March next year.

Please get in touch with the panel by emailing riotspanel@communities.gsi.gov.uk
or on twitter - @riotspanel.

Our interim report can be read on the website www.5daysinaugust.co.uk.

Darra Singh

Chairman of the Riots Communities and Victims Panel

Lynne Featherstone is a government Minister and is obliged to back government
policy, even Michael Gove's absurd and dangerous attempt to force some Haringey
schools to become academies.

When David Lammy was a Minister he backed some measures that were unpopular with
many in the area but his argument was that there was a quid pro quo and that his
position allowed him to bat for Haringey and Tottenham at the highest level.

No doubt more could always have been done but there is solid evidence to back
his point.

It would be interesting to know what Ms Featherstone has done to pursue the
interests of Haringey at government level, even where this is not in accord with
the policy of the Coalition.

The issue is posed as to whether she is an MP representing the interests of a
nasty right-wing administration in Haringey or someone who is, albeit behind the
scenes, battling hard for the people of the borough.

Keith Flett

Mitchley Rd

Tottenham N17

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLJ


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1008 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     November 26, 2001 Monday, Home Edition

WAR ON TERRORISM: CRISIS AT A GLANCE;
Latest developments at home and abroad

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 522 words


Marines land: A contingent of 1,500 U.S. Marines, ferried in on waves of
helicopters, landed on the ground near the southern Afghan city of Kandahar, the
Taliban stronghold, news services reported Sunday evening. Kunduz falls:
Anti-Taliban forces claimed to have seized their enemy's last northern
strongpoint in Afghanistan on Sunday after a two-week siege. The fall of Kunduz
comes as talks are set to begin this week in Germany on forming a broad-based
government to succeed the Taliban. Prison riot: U.S. air strikes helped quell a
riot by Taliban prisoners who surrendered during the fall of Kunduz. Unconfirmed
reports said a member of the U.S. military died, but the Pentagon said all
personnel in the compound where the riot occurred were accounted for. Bin Laden
ally killed: An Islamic militant leader from Uzbekistan who was a key ally of
Osama bin Laden was killed in northern Afghanistan, an anti-Taliban general said
Sunday. Juma Namangani, 32, was fatally injured during fighting for the northern
city of Mazar-e-Sharif, where the Taliban were routed on Nov. 9, alliance Gen.
Daoud Khan said. It was not possible to verify his claim. Supply route cut:
Armed Pashtun tribesmen, aided by U.S. air strikes, have seized territory in
southern Afghanistan for the first time and cut off a key supply route between
Kandahar and Pakistan. Several hundred fighters captured the town of Takhteh
Pol, 25 miles southeast of Kandahar along the main road to the border, witnesses
and tribal leaders in Pakistan said Sunday. Aid workers return: Two American aid
workers released from captivity in Afghanistan meet today with President Bush in
the Oval Office. Heather Mercer, 24, and Dayna Curry, 30, both graduates of the
Baptist-affiliated Baylor University in Waco, Texas, spent three months in
Taliban captivity, charged with trying to convert Muslims to Christianity,
before they were freed Nov. 15. Flak for Ashcroft: Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.)
and other members of both parties want Attorney General John Ashcroft to answer
questions in Congress about military tribunals, racial profiling, and other
anti-terrorism measures sought by the administration. Japanese support: Three
Japanese warships left port Sunday to support the U.S.-led campaign in
Afghanistan under a new law that loosens post-World War II restrictions on
Japan's military. The deployment marks the first time since World War II that
the Japanese military has been used to support forces engaged in combat. Quieter
parties: Corporate holiday parties this year will be toned-down affairs, if they
are held at all, in the face of a shaky economy and post-attack worries.
Caterers and other party planners say they are feeling the cuts as corporations
eliminate the frills to save some cash. Powerful stuff: Sen. Patrick Leahy says
there was enough anthrax in the letter sent to his office to kill more than
100,000 people. The letter to the Vermont Democrat was discovered Nov. 16 in a
batch of unopened, quarantined mail. An FBI microbiologist said last week that
there were billions of spores inside the letter, which was taped around the
edges.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                             1009 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 14, 2016 Friday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
Fifth Circuit: RANDY DALE JACKSON, Plaintiff-Appellant v. JOHN HOCHBERG; LOREZNO
CABE; A. BROWN; MS. TILLIS; JOHN JOE, MDOC Personnel Correctional Officer;
EARNEST LEE, Defendants-Appellees

LENGTH: 1027  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of Fifth Circuit has
issued the following order:



  IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT No. 15-60269
Summary Calendar RANDY DALE JACKSON, Plaintiff-Appellant v. JOHN HOCHBERG;
LOREZNO CABE; A. BROWN; MS. TILLIS; JOHN JOE, MDOC Personnel Correctional
Officer; EARNEST LEE, Defendants-Appellees Appeal from the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi USDC No. 4:14-CV-89
Before REAVLEY, OWEN, and ELROD, Circuit Judges.

PER CURIAM:* Randy Dale Jackson, Mississippi prisoner # R8899, filed a 42 U.S.C.
§ 1983 complaint alleging that the defendants used excessive force by forcing
him to lay face down on a dirty gym floor and abrading and bruising his skin by
placing him in overly tight handcuffs in the wake of a riot in the prison gym.
He further alleged that the medical staff denied him treatment for his injuries.
* Pursuant to 5TH CIR. R. 47.5, the court has determined that this opinion
should not be published and is not precedent except under the limited
circumstances set forth in 5TH CIR. R. 47.5.4. United States Court of Appeals
Fifth Circuit FILED October 12, 2016 Lyle W. Cayce Clerk Case: 15-60269
Document: 00513714508 Page: 1 Date Filed: 10/12/2016 No. 15-60269 2 The district
court dismissed the complaint as frivolous, determining that Jackson failed to
state a claim for excessive force or deliberate indifference to his medical
needs. Accordingly, our review is de novo. E.g., Geiger v. Jowers, 404 F.3d 371,
373 (5th Cir. 2005). A claim is "frivolous if it does not have an arguable basis
in fact or law." Brewster v. Dretke, 587 F.3d 764, 767 (5th Cir. 2009). To
determine if a complaint fails to state a claim, our court applies the same
standard of review applicable to dismissals made pursuant to Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 12(b)(6), and will uphold a dismissal if, "taking the
plaintiff's allegations as true, it appears that no relief could be granted
based on the plaintiff's alleged facts." Samford v. Dretke, 562 F.3d 674, 678
(5th Cir. 2009) (quoting Harris v. Hegmann, 198 F.3d 153, 156 (5th Cir. 1999));
see also 28 U.S.C. § 1915(e)(2)(B). On appeal, Jackson argues that the district
court erred by dismissing his excessive force and medical claims. He also argues
that the magistrate judge was biased against him. Jackson fails to show that the
district court erred in dismissing his excessive force claim. In analyzing an
excessive force claim, this court looks at the extent of the injuries as well as
"the need for application of force, the relationship between that need and the
amount of force used, the threat reasonably perceived by the responsible
officials, and any efforts made to temper the severity of a forceful response."
Hudson v. McMillian, 503 U.S. 1, 7 (1992). Jackson's own recitation of events
demonstrates that there was unrest between rival gangs in the prison, which
resulted in a riot in the gym. At least one inmate was stabbed during the melee,
and the violence was such that riot guns and chemical agents were needed to
restore order. As part of their efforts to restore order and ensure the safety
of prisoners, the correctional officers separated and handcuffed the inmates,
including inmates like Jackson, Case: 15-60269 Document: 00513714508 Page: 2
Date Filed: 10/12/2016 No. 15-60269 3 who had not been directly involved in the
riot. Under the circumstances, the force used was applied in a good faith effort
to restore discipline rather than maliciously or sadistically to cause harm. See
id. Jackson likewise fails to show that the district court erred by dismissing
his claim regarding the denial of medical care. Jackson alleges that he suffered
pain, abrasions, and bruises as a result of the handcuffing. These minor
injuries did not present an excessive risk to Jackson's safety. See Farmer v.
Brennan, 511 U.S. 825, 837 (1994). Moreover, Jackson did not suffer any lasting
harm as a result of these injuries. As such, he has not demonstrated that he had
serious medical needs. See Wilson v. Seiter, 501 U.S. 294, 297 (1991). Jackson's
claim of judicial bias against the magistrate judge is based on his contention
that the ruling ignored the facts and the law in rejecting his claims. Adverse
judicial rulings alone are generally insufficient to establish judicial bias.
See Liteky v. United States, 510 U.S. 540, 555 (1994). Nothing in the record
supports a claim of judicial bias on the part of the magistrate judge. See id.
The appeal is without arguable merit and is therefore dismissed as frivolous.
See Howard v. King, 707 F.2d 215, 220 (5th Cir. 1983). Our dismissal of
Jackson's appeal as frivolous, and the district court's dismissal of his
complaint as frivolous for failure to state a claim, count as two strikes for
purposes of 28 U.S.C. § 1915(g). See Adepegba v. Hammons, 103 F.3d 383, 388 (5th
Cir. 1996). Our prior dismissal of Jackson's appeal as frivolous in Jackson v.
Waller, 608 F. App'x 245, 245-46 (5th Cir. 2015), also counts as a strike. See
id. Thus, Jackson has accumulated three strikes, and he is prohibited from
proceeding IFP in any civil action or appeal that is filed while he is
incarcerated Case: 15-60269 Document: 00513714508 Page: 3 Date Filed: 10/12/2016
No. 15-60269 4 or detained in any facility unless he is under imminent danger of
serious physical injury. See § 1915(g). Jackson is WARNED that future frivolous,
repetitive, or otherwise abusive filings will result in the imposition of
sanctions, including dismissal, monetary sanctions, and restrictions on his
ability to file pleadings in this court or any court subject to this court's
jurisdiction. See Coughlan v. Starkey, 852 F.2d 806, 817 n.21 (5th Cir. 1988).
Jackson is advised to review any pending appeals and actions and move to dismiss
any that are frivolous, repetitive, or otherwise abusive. APPEAL DISMISSED AS
FRIVOLOUS; 28 U.S.C. § 1915(e) BAR IMPOSED; SANCTION WARNING ISSUED. Case:
15-60269 Document: 00513714508 Page: 4 Date Filed: 10/12/2016



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1010 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           December 20, 2005 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Small progress is a victory for WTO

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 676 words


Observers expected the recent Hong Kong meet to end in total failure, but
fortunately they were proven wrong. It was predicted beforehand that it would be
another disaster, in the manner of the Seattle and Cancun meetings.

But the recently concluded World Trade Organisation (WTO) ministerial conference
in Hong Kong did manage to produce a few successes, reflecting the desire of
members to show their faith in the multilateral trade system. The noisy
protesters outside were reminiscent of the Seattle Conference, and the
difficulties that members were having midway through the conference made
observers think it might end up with no deal at all, just like the Cancun
meeting.

But the Hong Kong conference was able to show significant results in agriculture
in spite of attempts to water them down. Even small progress counts for a lot,
because it shows that members still have faith in the multilateral system.

The most significant result the WTO could agree on was setting a 2013 deadline
for ending export subsidies on agricultural products. Delegates also agreed to
return home and work on improving their proposals for the next round. They are
required to submit their plans for liberalising farm trade during the first
quarter of next year.

Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak yesterday hailed the conclusion of the
WTO ministerial conference, calling it a success even though there remained a
good number of details yet to be sorted out "At least the WTO managed to force
countries to come up with a specific deadline for eliminating export subsidies,"
he said.

It was indeed remarkable that members were able to strike a deal at all, given
how far apart they stood on the issues ahead of the meeting. Going into Hong
Kong, many did not expect any progress to speak of, what with Europe being too
distracted to worry much about free trade. Germany was too weak to lead, due to
the fragility of its coalition government under Chancellor Angela Merkel. France
was embroiled in domestic racial riots.

The United States might have had the best excuse for striking a farm deal, since
it needs to cut back on subsidies due to the historic deficits it is currently
running. And South Korean farmers were threatening to commit suicide in front of
the WTO conference venue if the farm sector were opened up further.

Officials ended up working day and night on the draft text, which is still full
of blank spaces that indicate remaining areas of disagreement, to be sorted out
by members in the next round.

Members negotiated virtually round the clock. They ended up leaving the
negotiations for their hotels in the wee hours of the morning. Protesters even
managed to block some negotiators from entering.

But at the end of the day, WTO members could not allow the organisation to fail
again.

The WTO did not require members simply to open up their markets, but also aimed
at promoting the wellbeing of some of the least developed countries. And future
rules for anti-dumping duties should also prevent some countries from raising
tariffs unfairly to block certain imports.

When all was said and done, there remained several issues to be sorted out,
because the members agreed only on a framework for tariff cuts and the deadline
for the elimination of export subsidies. But the fact that the members could
strike a deal at the last minute following marathon talks was a testament to
their faith and commitment.

Credit is due to all WTO members for pushing the Doha Round forward. But from
now on, they will have to show the utmost seriousness in concluding it by coming
up with sensible proposals for next year's final session.

And should the WTO fail to reach a conclusion next year, wealthier members like
the larger European Union nations will not be the only ones to blame. The
European Union has already compromised to some extent by agreeing to the 2013
deadline. Now, it's the developing countries that must return the favour by
being prepared to discuss other areas that matter to world trade, such as the
liberalisation of industrial goods and services.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1011 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           November 27, 2014 Thursday

Protests erupt across the US over acquittal of Ferguson police officer troops
deployed #124as president calls for rioters to #124be prosecuted

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 797 words


Agence France-Presse

FERGUSON, United States

Protest marches sprang up in cities across the United States on Tuesday, as a
huge security operation stifled clashes in Ferguson, the town at the centre of
the country's latest racially charged riots.

Violent unrest erupted in the St Louis suburb for a second night, after Monday's
decision by a grand jury not to prosecute a white police officer for shooting
dead an unarmed black teenager.

Missouri Governor Jay Nixon said the National Guard force in the Ferguson area
had been tripled to more than 2,000 troops to back up officers' beleaguered
local police force.

A St Louis police patrol car was burnt by protesters and the force declared the
demonstration an "illegal gathering", warning marchers and journalists alike
that they faced arrest.

Meanwhile, armed Missouri National Guard troopers sealed off West Florissant,
the road running through Ferguson that was the scene of the worst looting and
arson on Monday night after the verdict was announced.

At the Ferguson police station riot police dispersed around 100 protesters
chanting and waving placards, including one that read: "We will not be
silenced".

The crowd fell back towards Ferguson city hall, where a patrol car was set on
fire and riot officers fired tear gas and deployed imposing armoured personnel
carriers to regain control.

Crowds were smaller than they had been on Monday. But masked agitators on the
fringes of the demonstration clashed with police and there were reports of
looting at a pharmacy four blocks away.

"Lives and property must be protected. This community deserves to have peace,"
Governor Nixon said, as anger mounted nationwide.

Thousands of marchers snaked along streets and freeways, disrupting traffic on
bridges and in tunnels in New York City, leading to a number of arrests. A
peaceful crowd took to the streets in Washington outside the White House.

Similar angry but largely peaceful protests sprang up in cities large and small,
from Oakland and Seattle on the West Coast to Atlanta, Philadelphia and
Baltimore in the east.

In sprawling Los Angeles, 500 people, a racially-mixed crowd including families
and children, marched on police headquarters. In Portland and Denver police
reportedly resorted to pepper spray.

CNN reported that gatherings large and small had been reported in 170
communities nationwide.

US President Barack Obama called for rioters to be prosecuted, but acknowledged
the deep-rooted frustrations of minorities who feel they are unfairly treated by
police.

"There are productive ways of responding and expressing those frustrations and
there are destructive ways of responding," he said.

"Burning buildings, torching cars, destroying property, putting people at risk.
That's destructive and there's no excuse for it. Those are criminal acts."

"Broken process"

Lawyers for the family of slain youth Michael Brown denounced the prosecutor
whose grand jury hearing found that police officer Darren Wilson had killed the
18-year-old in self-defence.

"This process is broken. This process should be indicted," Brown family lawyer
Benjamin Crump told a news conference.

Crump criticised the way Wilson had not been cross-examined when he appeared
before the grand jury, which decided not to indict him over the August 9
shooting.

But in his first televised comments since the incident, Wilson told ABC News he
had feared for his life during the confrontation, believing Brown was attempting
to wrestle his gun away from him.

"I can feel his hand trying to come over my hand and get inside the trigger
guard and try to shoot me with my own gun," Wilson said.

Asked if he believed he would have acted the same way if Brown were white,
Wilson responded: "No question".

The officer said he was comfortable that he had acted correctly.

"I don't think it's haunting. It's always going to be something that happened,"
he said, adding that his conscience was clear because "I know I did my job
right."

Civil rights firebrand Al Sharpton said the Brown case renewed a nationwide
fight for greater police accountability. "This is not a Ferguson problem ...
This is a problem all over the country," Sharpton said. "We may have lost one
round but the fight is not over. They have broken our hearts, but not our
backs."

Separate protests flared, meanwhile, in Cleveland, Ohio, following the fatal
shooting by police of a 12-year-old black boy holding a toy gun at the weekend.

Despite appeals by Brown's family for calm in Ferguson on Monday, protests
rapidly degenerated into looting, arson and running street battles between
police and stone-throwers.

Ferguson mayor James Knowles declined to comment on Wilson's future, saying only
that the 28-year-old officer remained on administrative leave.

"His current employment status has not changed," Knowles said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1012 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 26, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Love; I was riot hostage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 68 words


COURTNEY Love poses for photos yesterday after escaping from a riot.

The US rock star, 50, paid a group of motorcyclists to whisk her away after her
taxi was ambushed in Paris.

She said: "They are holding our driver hostage and beating cars with bats. This
is FranceI'm safer in Baghdad."

Demonstrations have turned violent across France as registered cabbies protest
against unlicensed rivals working for Uber.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: I'LL BRING CHAOS TO CALAIS: PAGE 15 Taxi wars . . car is overturned in
Paris yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1013 of 1015 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

G8: Who's who & what's what Q&A

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 625 words


Q What is the G8?? The G8, or group of eight, is the heads of state of the
world's wealthiest and leading industrial nations. Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, Russia, US and the UK make up about half of the world's GDP.

QS When did it come about?? Its roots date from 1973 when the finance ministers
of the US, UK, France and West Germany met to discuss the oil crisis on an
informal basis. The first summit was held in 1975.

At that stage it was just the G6, and it was joined by Canada the following
year. In 1998, Russia joined as a full member.

The EU has been part of the group since 1977, but does not hold the presidency.

Q Which nation heads the G8?? It changes every year. It's chaired by the UK this
year, followed by Russia in 2014 and Germany in 2015.

Q What's happening on Monday?? The leaders of each nation will meet for two days
at the Lough Erne resort near Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh.

Q Why Lough Erne, and not London? ? The UK government chose the Fermanagh resort
as a "demonstration" that Northern Ireland was a "modern and dynamic part" of
the UK, open for business and with "huge potential" for investment and tourism.

Q What will they do? ? British Prime Minister David Cameron will focus on three
issues which he says are critical for growth, prosperity and economic
development across the world. They are advancing trade, ensuring tax compliance
and promoting greater transparency.

Q What does that mean? ? The G8 will not be able to "whip out a chequebook" and
start pledging money to tackle world problems, Mr Cameron says. In trade, there
are talks ongoing between the EU and Canada, while negotiations are set to open
between the EU and Japan on a trade agreement. He wants less bureaucracy and the
opening of borders to allow free movement of goods and services.

On tax, he wants nations to share information to tackle abuses, and on
developing nations and economic growth he wants more transparency and a
crackdown on corruption.

Q Does it discuss anything else? ? The group routinely deals with economic
issues, international trade and relations with developing countries. Other
issues include energy, terrorism, the environment, crime, drugs, human rights
and arms control.

Q How is the agenda set? ? The host nation decides the agenda in consultation
with other members. The leaders' personal representatives, known as sherpas,
meet throughout the year. In addition, meetings of ministers are held throughout
the year, while there is constant interaction with officials from all countries,
who can take part in working groups to focus on particular matters of concern.

Q How are decisions made?? The members agree by consensus on major issues.

Q Do we have any role? ? Not really. Taoiseach Enda Kenny will attend as an
observer and, in representing the EU presidency, may take part in discussions.
He will watch with interest what the leaders say about tax compliance, given the
recent controversies over Google and Apple. The EU is represented by Jose Manuel
Barroso, president of the European Commission, and Herman Van Rompuy, the
president of the European Council.

Q Why do people protest at these meetings? ? There are concerns that the
organisation wields too much power and doesn't do enough to address major issues
affecting citizens of developing nations.

For example, protesters will say that billions of euro have been pumped into
banks to avoid their collapse, money that could have been used to help solve
world hunger. They also claim the G8 is not doing enough to tackle climate
change and that leaders promote attacks on civil liberties, citing Russia's
jailing of Pussy Riot and the US government's routine surveillance of private
citizens.

In 2001, a protester was killed after protests turned violent.

PAUL MELIA

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clockwise from above: newly erected security fencing, in the grounds of
Queens University, Belfast, on the eve of G8 planned protests in the city; David
Cameron with Peter Robinson and Martin McGuinness; PSNI officers carry out
security checks near Belfast International Airport. PAUL FAITH/PA; WILL
OLIVER/PA; COLM LENAGHAN/PACEMAKER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1014 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

The mob and the Prophet

SECTION: EDITORIAL; ARAB WORLD / RIOTS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 428 words


The anti-American riots spreading through the Arab and Muslim world are
sickening displays of what might be termed bin Ladenism - attempts to inflame
the Islamic world against the United States. But they haven't fundamentally
altered the political status quo in the countries of the Arab Spring.

The riots serve the interests of the Islamic radicals who are jockeying for
power in Egypt, Libya, Yemen and beyond. It is no coincidence that the riots and
assaults on U.S. diplomatic missions began on September 11. Nor is it a
coincidence that an Egyptian television station linked to militant Salafists was
behind the initial provocation - broadcasting a hateful, amateurish 13:51 film,
which may or may not be a trailer for a full-length film called Innocence of
Muslims (it's not clear that such a film exists).

These radicals have demonstrated their ability to manipulate the passions of the
most extreme elements of the faithful. But that is little surprise. They are
still a force, and it is disturbing that Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi,
either because of political calculations or personal conviction, was slow and
soft in his criticism of the violence. Still, the democratically elected Libyan
leader, Mohammed Magarief, was unequivocal in his condemnation of the attack
that killed the U.S. ambassador and three other Americans.

The ease of the manipulation is frightening. The film was not made by a
Hollywood studio. It was not shown in theatres to an admiring public. It did
not, for all intents and purposes, exist, until someone posted it to the
Internet, and the Egyptian TV station Al-Nas translated it into Arabic. Unlike
The Satanic Verses, written by the novelist Salman Rushdie, which led to an
international assassination campaign beginning in 1989, or the 2005 Danish
cartoons featuring the Prophet Muhammad, which sparked deadly riots around the
world, this film was made by a nobody and shown to no one.

It is said that some people in the Arab world believe that if something is
permitted to be made in the United States, it must be approved by the United
States. And some in Muslim countries hold that blasphemy or an insult to the
Prophet Muhammad should be punishable by death. One anti-Muslim extremist in
America can awaken mobs.

But, in the midst of the chaos, some still have the courage to speak up, as in
this comment in an Egyptian newspaper: "Should we turn into murderers and
slaughterers to prove to the world that we love the Prophet?" The mob has not
taken over in the Arab world, but there are provocateurs hoping it will.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2012 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1015 of 1015 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                           February 4, 2003, Tuesday

Objecting to war

SECTION: FEATURES; EDITORIAL; Pg. 6; OPINION; A

LENGTH: 698 words


Christchurch maintained one of its less admirable traditions with the attack on
the 9/11 firefighters' memorial. Over-the- top protest goes back to the early
decades of the Canterbury colony, with sectarian riots, and the United States
consulate here was firebombed during the Vietnam War and Anzac services
disrupted. But tradition does not make the practice acceptable.

The slide of legitimate protest into violence and vandalism threatens the
delicate balance that lies at the heart of a free society. Free speech and the
right to protest can be maintained only if its practitioners respect the rights
of others.

The attack on the memorial breached that boundary. In effect it attacked the
thousands of Christchurch citizens who regarded the monument as expressing their
sorrow about a terrible event, their respect for the firemen who gave their
lives to lessen its impact, and their faith that the threat posed by terrorism
can be overcome.

Of course the defacement was probably carried out by a couple of misguided
fanatics, too silly to understand they were undermining their own cause.
Certainly there is no reason to think they represented the majority of
Christchurch people opposed to a war with Iraq. Peace groups in the city have
condemned the vandalism.

If letters to the editor of The Press are any indication, the bulk of objectors
are sincere and capable of justifying their views with reasoned argument. They
are misguided in ruling out war in any circumstances, but violence and vandalism
are not their methods of dissent.

However, if the Iraqi crisis is not rapidly solved, New Zealand is bound to
experience more protest, and some of it will be excessive. The peace movement is
well organised, active, and it has many sympathisers in the wider community. The
targeting of Iraq is particularly objectionable to these people because it
entails not just the use of war as an instrument of diplomacy but is entwined
with the perception of America as an oil-greedy bully.

We saw the effects of this heady brew not just in the defacing of the
Christchurch memorial but also in the attack on the United States Embassy in
Wellington at the weekend. Both actions suggest a head of anger among protesters
that encourages some of them to go too far.

This is happening while the New Zealand Government is taking a cautious approach
to the crisis. Its refusal to support war unless it is sanctioned by the United
Nations has so far protected it from much criticism from the peace movement, but
that would dramatically change should the go-ahead be given and a war begin with
New Zealand's support. The protest would not be just on the streets. Some
members of the Labour caucus would be bound to have doubts about war in any
circumstances, and would press the Government not to give support.

This is unlikely to give Prime Minister Helen Clark sleepless nights. Her caucus
is mainly moderate and knows Labour's popularity would be severely eroded if it
gave in to radical activists. Closely tracking public opinion is a foundation of
the Government's success, and it would be unlikely to alter that course over an
Iraq war.

The latest opinion poll makes plain the mood of New Zealanders. The majority
would not support an attack if it were not sanctioned by the United Nations; the
majority would approve an attack if sanctioned; 32.3 per cent oppose a war in
any circumstances.

That finding must give the Government confidence that its policy is in tune with
public opinion, and that it could make some commitment if a war had United
Nations approval. But that could change.

Sending fighting units has already been ruled out -- only logistical,
humanitarian, or medical help would be on offer. However, even that
comparatively soft deployment would be under risk if the war went wrong -- was
prolonged and costly in terms of human life. The nearly one-third of the
population opposing an attack in any circumstances would gain supporters, and
the Government would then be in a more vulnerable position.

The same risk is facing the American, British, and Australian governments. Each
is on the brink of a war that has shallow support from voters.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Fairfax New Zealand
