
                               1 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            February 8, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Punk girls take fight for Riots to Europe

BYLINE: LARISSA NOLAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 119 words


LAWYERS for feminist punk group Pussy Riot have contested their convictions in
the European Court of Human Rights.

The complaint filed this week alleges the group's conviction in Russia violates
their freedom of speech, the right to liberty and security, the prohibition of
torture and right to a fair trial.

Maria Alekhina, Yekaterina Samutsevich and Natalia Tolokonnikova were jailed for
two years in February for their "punk prayer" against Vladimir Putin's return as
president at Moscow's main cathedral.

Samutsevich was later released on appeal.

The trio's convictions on charges of "hooliganism motivated by religious hatred"
has sparked global outrage.

Alekhina is currently appealing several reprimands in court.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Legal bid ... band

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 18, 2006 Monday

suffocated by the old routine;
Pars' lack of intent leaves Celts craving the big stage

BYLINE: STEPHEN MCGOWAN

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 870 words


AFTER all the footstomping carousing of Old Trafford came the return to a slow
waltz for Celtic. For a time, the footwork was exhilarating.

Inevitably, however, a degree of numbness sets in so long as all the movement
flows in one, monotonous direction.

At the end of a week when Gordon Strachan set out to restore the Scottish
league's pride, this was a defiant contradiction of the Celtic manager's remit.

Dunfermline assistant manager Craig Robertson appeared after a satisfyingly
narrow defeat to admit that ambition had never been his side's watchword.

Had the SPL's English detractors been watching, then they might have harboured a
knowing, toldyouso smirk. Scottish clubs have so far played nine games in Europe
this season and won just one.

Something, somewhere, is lacking.

The manner of Celtic's victory here was far more convincing than the scoreline
suggested. And, at times, their play bordered on the delightful.

Yet games like this serve only to emphasise how important the Champions League
is in preserving sporting ideals.

If the name of the domestic game is merely to prevent the opposition running
riot, then Europe - and genuine competition - is the only escape from
stultifying boredom.

Celtic's spirited contribution to an exhilarating, pulsating two-step in
Manchester restored the faith.

And made an inevitable victory over the Fifers all the more mundane.

There were times when some of the key performers for the champions found it
impossible to raise their game beyond first gear. Saturday's first Old Firm game
of the season will require far more than has been evident in two perfunctory
single- goal wins over Aberdeen and the Pars.

In mitigation, a s manager Strachan conceded later, Celtic rarely needed to up
the tempo against the East End Park side.

'I enjoyed the first half,' said Strachan. ' But we were more relaxed in the
second, a bit one dimensional. I f the other team had got a chance, then it
might have woken up our players. But they never got a chance.

'Last season, we were 3-1 up against Dundee United and drew 3-3, so, at 1-0, I
was worried.

Most teams create chances.' Last November, Dunfermline became the last side to
win at Parkhead by putting 10 men behind the ball and snatching a breakaway
goal. It's doubtful they were even that ambitious on Saturday.

Entertaining Celtic fans is not the job of the Fifers. And the sight of Pounds
5million worth of new Celtic talent - in the shape of Thomas Gravesen and Jan
Vennegoor of Hesselink - merely confirmed the economic gulf between the teams.

Bewilderingly, Gravesen was awarded the sponsors' Man-of-the-Match award at
time-up. They had, one assumes, been at the halftime sherry. Save for one
thumping shot against the post during Celtic's best spell and a subsequent burst
to the byline, the Dane was no match for Stilian Petrov's dynamism.

This is not, we are told, a holding player in the Neil Lennon mould.

Yet there were times when the Northern Irishman, a rival to Lee Naylor for the
real Man of the Match, looked like a marauding centre-forward in comparison to
his more feted new arrival.

A 31st- minute header from Stephen McManus, thumping Greg Shields out of the way
to bullet home Shunsuke Nakamura's corner, had ended the initial malaise which
settled over Celtic post-Old Trafford.

Thereafter, Nakamura was unfortunate to be denied the second goal when a superb
burst from the restored Shaun Maloney teed up a close-range shot against the
legs of Dunfermline keeper Dorus de Vries.

Nevertheless, the Japanese international built on his superb strike in
Manchester with another industrious, deft performance.

'The game was only a few days

after Manchester, so most of the players were still quite tired,' said Nakamura.
'But the manager was quite happy with today's result and the shape of the team.
Rangers is going to be a home match, so we have to win that game to make sure we
go back into the Champions League in a great mood.

'Ideally, we want to win both games, they are both very important.' It is
remarkable what a goal on the biggest stage can do for a man.

Two weeks ago, post-Pittodrie, Nakamura was on the verge of being jettisoned
from the affections of the Parkhead support, many of whom wearied of his
indifferent away performances.

However, his place in Celtic fans' hearts would now appear to be safe once
again, as he acknowledged: 'The supporters always gave me good applause, but I
try to do my very best for them, as well.' Likewise Kenny Miller, who yet again
performed the neat trick of playing well without scoring. Six league games have
now passed without a single goal - but at least he twice came close with craning
headers on Saturday.

Leaving the field to be replaced by Maciej Zurawski, Strachan admitted
afterwards that neither man has earned the right yet to be considered
Hesselink's natural partner.

Both, however, are significantly closer to the action than the suited and booted
Derek Riordan.

Freed from the shackles of the Under-21 rule, the Celtic manager is expected to
hand the former Hibs man a start against St Mirren in the CIS Cup tomorrow
night.

If nothing else, it might inject some interest into a game with little more than
nuisance value ahead of the visit of Rangers and FC Copenhagen.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1)'MILLER: DREW A BLANK (2)HEAD BHOY: MCMANUS SCORES (LEFT) AND
CELEBRATES WITH VENNEGOOR OF HESSELINK (RIGHT), WHILE MALONEY TRIES HIS LUCK AT
THE DUNFERMLINE GOAL (ABOVE) UNDER THE STUDIOUS GAZE OF STRACHAN AND LEISHMAN
(BELOW)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

DONKEY WORK IS TOURING;
DEMELZA DE BURCA TALKS TO CSS'S GUITAR PLAYER LUIZA SA ABOUT GETTING BACK ON THE
ROAD AFTER A BREAK

BYLINE: DEMELZA DE BURCA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 850 words


Just five years ago, Brazilian party starters CSS (Cansei de Ser Sexy -
Portuguese for "tired of being sexy") were the toast of the cool crowd. Their
first album was a critics favourite, jampacked with guitars, synths, bleeps and
beats together with cheeky lyrics lampooning pop and celebrity culture.

Dictionary-breaking lead singer Lovefoxxx, 27, right, (real name Luísa Hanae
Matsushita), often seen sporting face paint and a multicoloured leotard, was
instantly hailed as the Queen of Cool, with magazines such as Dazed & Confused
clamouring to have her adorn their covers.

Her relationship with Simon Taylor-Davis of the Klaxons was a marriage made in
hipster heaven.

Then came the band's 2008 follow up, Donkey, which garnered mixed reviews. And
now, three years on, in which time we've seen the Klaxons fall dramatically from
grace, comes CSS's third album, La Liberación.

We chat to guitar player Luiza Sá, 28, about the new offering and how the lo-fi
electro-rockers are ready to get back on the road after their two year hiatus.

The Beat: In a recent interview Adriano (Cinto, instrumentalist and producer)
said La Liberación "is not a themed album. It has influences from clubs, reggae
and punk."

Can you tell me about the making of it.

Luiza: We recorded the album last year in Brazil and before that we took almost
an entire year off after five years of touring. In 2009 we only did five shows.
This album really reflects a much more relaxed band.

I wouldn't say touring is bad but it's really hard. We're now at a point where
we miss it. We are praising it now, which is amazing because if you do to much
of it you really start hating and start feeling trapped or something. But it's
just because it's too intense.

If you only tour it's really hard to connect with everyone else because it's
such a different reality. I feel like this record is much more connected to a
more pop record.

Donkey was more of a touring record almost because we recorded it between tours
really fast. And it was a record that was really connected to the live show and
this record was more of a producers record.

Many songs on La Liberación we had no idea how we were going to play them live
but we didn't care. We just went for it. but Not with every song on the album
but there is more of a pop approach, but pop in the bad sense of the word. In a
sense that the songs are structured in a way that you want to listen to it over
and over and play on the radio.

Because pop music nowadays is so, the meaning is so lost. It's so shitty and
synthetic and out of tune and weird. Ours is more pop in the 60s, 70s, 80s
sense.

The Beat: I presume you've been testing it out in your shows, how has it been
received?

Luiza: It's been amazing the new record came out on August 22nd so we only had
six songs and they are having a great response. It's very encouraging. It's
wonderful.

The Beat: Primal Scream's Bobby Gillespie lends his talent to your first single
Hits Me Like a Rock, how did you get him on board?

Luiza: We've always been fans and we met them six years ago at festivals and we
were always friends with Primal Scream. They are really cool people aside from
the fact that they make amazing music.

And then Lovefoxxx in 2008 sang on their record so it was natural for us to
invite him and he said yes. All the collaborations on their record were made via
internet there was no real jamming. But he came through really wonderfully and
this song really fitted his voice and it brought the song onto a different
level.

The Beat: So where are you guys based at the moment?

Luiza: We always change our base. Last year was Brazil, this year two-thirds of
the band are in Brazil, Adriano is in São Paulo and London and I'm in Berlin for
a while. I was in New York for years but I just wanted to come to Europe so I
think until November I'll be here. I'm really enjoying it, it's the best for me
right now.

The Beat: Can you make a living from being in the band?

Luiza: We're not rich, hopefully we'll get more money especially after taking
the year off to record, leaving tow years without really working was kind of
insane. But we are fine I want to grow but not just because I want money I want
the music to grow. Sometimes we DJ because we have fun and I collaborate
pictures with magazines and Lovefoxxx is an illustrator. Ana works with video.

Adriano has a job, he works in advertising doing sound for commercials. He's
such a workaholic.

The Beat: You've talked about how touring left you all burnt out, are you
anxious about going on the road again?

Luiza: No. I am really excited about being on the road again. It's great timing,
especially with the UK and Ireland, we haven't been there in so long and I
really want to go back and fight my way in.

It's time to come back. And with the crisis in London, the riots, Europe seems
to be going through a rough place and music can be a really good place to be to
remember people, the enthusiasm for life and why we are alive and keep going. It
gives extra meaning to the whole thing.

I'm pretty sure by the end of the year we'll be in Ireland, I have no doubt.

La Liberación is out now.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday

France's riots are Europe's problem

BYLINE: Sandro Contenta, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Youth riots are spreading across France and ringing out as a warning call
throughout Western Europe.

A massive failure to integrate youths of immigrant backgrounds, which last night
exploded into a 12th evening of violence in France, is at the heart of troubled
race relations on much of the continent.

Nightly images of French youths clashing with police, trashing shops and turning
streets into roaring bonfires of cars have some observers warning that any
European country could be next.

"Our French neighbours are giving us the loudest alarm call they can. Wake up
everybody," Trevor Phillips, head of Britain's Commission for Race Relations,
wrote in a newspaper column.

The unrest began in Paris's suburban ghettoes on Oct. 27 and grew to a frenzy of
violence that has spread to 300 French towns. About 4,700 cars have been
torched, dozens of police officers injured and 1,200 people detained at least
temporarily.

French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin announced last night that local
officials would be empowered to impose curfews, under a 1955 law that allows
declaration of a state of emergency. The law was originally passed to curb
unrest in Algeria during the war that led to that country's independence.

Villepin said 1,500 police and gendarme reservists were being called up to
reinforce the 8,000 who are already deployed to curb rioting. He resisted calls
to call up the army to quell the riots, but he promised that the government
would take "the necessary measures to re-establish order very quickly throughout
France."

More than a dozen countries have issued warnings to travellers to be aware of
the possible dangers of visiting France.

"You should be extremely careful if you have to travel through the affected
areas," says a notice on the Foreign Affairs Canada website. "Canadians should
monitor local news and should be especially vigilant and avoid situations where
violence and demonstrations may occur."

Sunday night also brought the first signs of similar unrest spreading beyond
France. There were apparent copycat attacks in the Belgian capital of Brussels,
where five cars were burned, and in a Berlin neighbourhood, where a few cars
were set alight.

The problem largely revolves around Europe's inability to integrate up to 15
million Muslims of immigrant background.

The challenge is heightened by the fact that the main models of integration -
the assimilation model practised in France, or the multicultural one in Britain
and Holland - seem to have failed.

"Everyone is trying to sell his model of integration as the right one, but none
of them are working. All the models are in crisis," said Olivier Roy, a French
scholar of European Islam.

The French model pretends to be colour-blind, insisting that even the collection
of statistics on ethnic minority groups would offend its cherished principles of
"liberte, egalite et fraternite."

And yet, it has allowed French citizens of immigrant background to be segregated
and isolated in impoverished apartment complexes on the outskirts of major
cities.

In Clichy-sous-Bois, the northeastern suburb of Paris where the unrest first
broke out 12 days ago, unemployment is at 40 per cent - four times the national
average.

But a week before riots broke out in France, Britain's multicultural model also
showed its strains.

The heart of Birmingham, England's second largest city, was engulfed for several
days by race riots between young Britons of black and Pakistani backgrounds. Two
people were left dead and shops were trashed.

Phillips, whose agency promotes racial equality, questioned Britain's model of
multiculturalism, insisting it had created a society that is "sleepwalking to
segregation."

"Some districts are on their way to becoming fully fledged ghettoes - black
holes into which no one goes without fear and trepidation, and from which no one
ever escapes undamaged. The walls are going up around many of our communities,"
he warned.

With few exceptions, European governments used Turkish and North African
immigrant "guest workers" as a source of cheap labour for decades. Little effort
was made to integrate them because of neglect and a belief that immigrants would
one day return home.

When immigrants instead brought in their families, and when many more arrived
clandestinely, right-wing parties grew popular in the 1990s by declaring their
countries "full."

The children of these immigrants were born in Europe, but they often live on the
margins of society, facing discrimination, and struggling with unemployment and
dropout rates much higher than national averages.

"After Sept.11, 2001, the problem with integration became the problem with
Islam," Roy said. "We made as if everything depended on Islam when in fact Islam
has nothing to do with the social problems these youths face."

In France, a focus on Islam saw the government ban the wearing of headscarves in
schools. Yet the centre-right government did nothing to ease job discrimination,
Roy said. It even cut the subsidized job program for youths set up by the
previous socialist government.

In Holland, where the murder of filmmaker Theo Van Gogh sparked tit-for-tat
attacks against mosques and churches that shattered the Dutch self-image of
tolerance, the government is proposing a ban on burqas, a covering worn by some
Muslim women. "We shouldn't minimize extremism and Muslims must act against it.
But that's not the heart of the problem," said Ramadan, the Geneva-based
philosopher who lectures across the continent on a tolerant version of European
Islam.

"The heart of the problem today is that in France, you have second and third
generation young people who say, 'I'm a French citizen,' and they get thrown
back at them that they're Arabs and Muslims," he added.

"The only time they're fully accepted as French is when they play soccer and
score goals, like Zinedine Zidane," said Ramadan, referring to the French-born
soccer star of Algerian background.

With files from star wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  MICHEL SPINGLER AP Another car burns early today in Gentilly, south of
Paris. About 4,700 vehicles have been burned in France so far, and copycat
attacks have occurred in Brussels and Berlin. The root of the problem is
Europe's inability to integrate 15 million Muslims of immigrant background.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2005 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                               10 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

European drought threatens farmers, drives up food prices; Shortage of rain
worst in 35 years

BYLINE: Adam Sage, The Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 584  words

DATELINE: PARIS


Bernard Maquis's cattle would normally be grazing in the lush green pastures of
the Limousin region in central France at this time of year. Instead, they are
eating hay intended for the winter after months of drought that has turned the
fields yellow.

He is wondering whether it might be better to sell his cows at a reduced price
rather find himself without fodder by the end of the autumn. "I'm starting to
sleep badly," he said.

Maquis is not alone. With Northern Europe facing its worst drought since 1976,
politicians in the West are expecting protests from farmers, consumer discontent
and a strain on budgets. Third World nations are braced for riots as Europe's
heat wave creates a rise in food prices and drives millions deeper into poverty.

"We are in a situation of crisis and of crisis management," said Nathalie
Kosciusko-Morizet, the French ecology minister.

Meteorologists say that Northern Europe has had 50 per cent less rain than
normal over the past two months, while temperatures have been four degrees
higher than usual. In France, water restrictions have been implemented across
more than half of the country and the drought is already comparable to 1976,
when a heat wave wrecked the annual harvest.

The difference, according to Michele Blanchard, an engineer in the climatology
division of the French weather office, is that "in 1976 the high temperatures
came in June, not in April."

Germany has had twice as many hours of sunshine as it would normally expect in
the spring. Some German regions have had just five per cent of their standard
rainfall. "We desperately need rain," said Andrea Adams, spokeswoman for the
Farmers' Association in Rhineland-Palatinate in Germany. She said the wheat was
yellow, the sugar beet had barely grown at all and the rye was "curling up and
dying."

In the Limousin, Maquis said that the corn to fatten his cattle in the winter
should be 20 centimetres high by now. "But it's just vegetating," he said,
raising the prospect that he will have to buy in fodder. "But at the price we
have to pay, it's not even worth trying. We may as well just shut up shop."

With breeders across France beginning to sell animals they cannot feed, protests
are under way. In southwest France, farmers blocked roads to a highway for
several hours last week after they failed to obtain temporary permission to take
water from rivers.

The French government has asked Brussels to pay about $1 billion in European
Union aid several months early. But the French farmers' union also wants the
state to underwrite interest-free loans to help "les agriculteurs" through the
summer.

In France, bakers' unions are predicting an increase in the cost of baguettes,
while in North Rhine-Westphalia, the German region, tomatoes are 26 per cent
more expensive than last year. Governing parties fear the increases will create
anti-government sentiment that extreme movements will exploit.

With droughts reported in China and Southern U.S. states, the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the UN fears rioting in poor countries. Officials
said the global price of cereals had risen 71 per cent in the past 12 months,
and while Moscow will lift a ban on exports of wheat, barley, rye, corn and
flour introduced during the heat wave last summer, it may provide only temporary
relief.

Europe's nuclear industry said it may have to shut down some riverside reactors
if water levels became too low, while champagne vineyards said that they would
harvest grapes in August rather than September as usual.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Stephane Mahe, Reuters; The cracked bed of the Loire River is shown
near the Anjou-Bretagne bridge in Ancenis, France.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Money talks, protesters

BYLINE: David Warren, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; David Warren; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 791  words


The "Occupy Wall Street" demonstrations - now franchising across the U.S. and
Canada - are the latest fashion statement from the Left, for the fall political
season, in a year that has already offered the Arab Spring, and the debt riots
of Europe. North Americans hate to miss out on a trend.

What can be said to these people? Where to start?

If you honestly think the banks are making too much money, then you should buy
some bank shares. They are freely available in the open market.

And if you think all these profits are immoral, then get your friends together.
Buy up lots of shares. Collect all these obscene dividends, and then: give the
money to the poor and unemployed.

No, I'm not kidding. The poor are unlikely to refuse. I have the honour to live
among them (thanks to the ministrations of government bureaucracies, with
initials like CRA and FRO), and I know them.

They are not shy. They will take your money. Indeed, if you get to know them
yourself, you will find that they are as human as bankers, and as greedy. Just
not very successful.

But hey, if they only had money. Because money talks. And it says what you tell
it to say; it speaks for you. And the poor have their investments, too:
cigarettes, liquor, candy, lottery tickets, widescreen TVs. And you can top up
their investment funds.

Or open a soup kitchen, if you prefer. Or stock the Sally Anne with clothes from
Holt Renfrew. Or pay some poor kid's college tuition. It's your call. (I
personally think a college education is, these days, about the most destructive
thing you can provide for a kid, but that's just my opinion.)

This is the unanswerable argument to the Left of all ages: Instead of trying to
coerce someone else to do what you think is right and just (and every Left
policy I have ever seen involved coercion of the non-Left), put your money where
your mouth is. Go "liberate" cash by legitimate means (within the laws), then
set an example in how you spend it.

Give, until it hurts, to the most needful. And you can volunteer your free time
into the bargain, for in my experience, you cannot begin to know who is most
needful, until you have rolled up your pant legs and waded into action.

Give the money instead to almost any "progressive" charity, and it will never
get there. This is because, quite apart from corruption (which always exists
when free money is floating about), the progressive idea of charity is agitprop.
That is: give us your money, and we will lobby the government on behalf of the
poor destitute victims whose plight is depicted so dramatically in our
pamphlets.

If you don't believe this, do your own research. Ideally, go right to the scene,
volunteering, and find out who is on the street in Port-au-Prince, or Juba, and
who is only on the street in Ottawa. (This is a good way to meet Christians,
incidentally.)

But now comes the disappointment. For I am recommending a course that gives none
of the rewards craved by the cavorting young ego. There is none of the euphoria
of street demonstrations, none of the easy applause (and easy sex) that comes
from boldly posturing as one of the "good people," fighting against the "bad
people."

The rewards for doing something, where it counts, are different in kind; and
they do not come easily.

I look at all the faces of the young, made up as zombies, clutching that fake
dollar-store money, and strutting down Wall Street. Most, obviously,
college-educated: the final products of an educational system that imparts
little knowledge but a lot of self-esteem. I look at the sheer smugness in those
faces, of people who have never experienced real hardship. All demanding that
someone else do something.

For that is the nature of street demonstrations: a form of coercion, of public
bullying. Getting yourself arrested on the Brooklyn Bridge, by gratuitously
blocking the traffic of the working stiffs, does not help anyone. It is a form
of personal display, an act of whining selfrighteousness that is intrinsic to
the psychology of the bully.

The attraction, to the copy-cat demonstrators across the continent, is "me too."
This is the Left's answer to the Tea Party in the U.S. - a point made repeatedly
through the liberal media, which themselves take pleasure in the analogy.

The comparison is utterly false. The Tea Party types have not taken the streets,
and their organizers have consistently struggled to maintain civility: to
ostracize any member whose behaviour or loose talk detracts from the dignity of
the movement. They are organizing to win elections, chiefly through the
established Republican Party: to advance their cause by legitimate democratic
means. And their rankand-file consists, overwhelmingly, of grown-ups.

David Warren's column appears on Sundays, Wednesdays and Saturdays.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2011 Ottawa Citizen, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                              July 22, 2001 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

All around me there's desolation, fury and destruction

BYLINE: JOHN VIDAL, GENOA

SECTION: NEWS; International News; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 396 words


IN front of me a young man lies dead under a white sheet. His body is surrounded
by 80 policemen in gas masks, with riot shields, truncheons and guns.

Not one looks more than 20 years old the age, it is said, of the dead man. They
shift nervously.

No-one knows exactly what happened. A doctor says the man has two head wounds.
One looks like the wound from a stone, she says. The other, in his cheek, could
be that of a bullet. He must have a name and a nationality, but at this moment,
he is simply "the unknown protester".

Someone says he heard a gunshot. Another says he saw the body driven over by a
police vehicle. All that is certain is that it happened at the height of one of
the worst riots Europe has known in decades.

The young man lies dead and Genoa is burning. Not the old city, but a city in
which the world leaders are meeting behind four-metre-high steel barricades
protected by 18,000 police.

There is a temporary silence as an ambulance comes to take away the body. But
just 200m away, on a side street, eight policemen have cornered another young
man fleeing from them.

They pile in with truncheons and he takes 20 blows to his head and body.
Amazingly, he gets up, bloodied, staggering and disoriented. A minute later he
collapses.

The helicopters buzz 25m overhead, and back in the square the crowd, momentarily
silent, is furious. They chant "assassins, assassins" at the police.

This was one of the most beautiful cities in Europe. Now stones and rubbish
litter the streets. Shops, banks, supermarkets, post offices, garages and other
businesses have been destroyed. All around me is desolation, fury and
destruction.

Nobody knows quite what has happened or where trouble will flare next. The only
certain thing is that there have been many injuries. Behind me a car park of 20
vehicles has been torched. The air swells with black smoke, tear gas and anger.

The Genoa Social Forum, with its 700 groups from across the world, all committed
to non-violence, negotiated with the police and is devastated.

"This is unacceptable," says a spokesman. "We have been provoked by a level of
State and anarchist violence that was unimaginable and unexpected. The G8 and
the Italian Government must be blamed, but we must accept our share of
responsibility."

It is now 7.30pm. In the distance protesters and police beat their drums under a
pall of smoke. They sound like thunder.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREE ILLUS: OUT OF CONTROL: A police vehicle comes under attack by a
group of rioters as a police officer points a gun from the rear window at a
balaclava-clad protester, who moments later lay dead on the road.Pictures:
Reuters/AP/AFP COUNTERATTACK: Riot police move around the man's body as they
charge protesters in the thick of the demonstration. VICTIM: Riot squad officers
surround the body of the dead man (seen menacing police in the picture above.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2001 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

How a boat people briefing got out of control;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Phillip Coorey CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 421 words


THE secretary of the Department of Immigration, Andrew Metcalfe, never actually
said onshore processing would cause Paris and London-style riots. Nor did he
tell Tony Abbott that onshore processing would result in more than 600 people
arriving each month by boat. He said that to journalists.

The purpose of Wednesday's briefing to Abbott was to stress that returning to
the "Pacific solution", which Labor abandoned and the Coalition wants to
restore, would not stop the boats, and that a "game changer", like the Malaysia
plan, was needed. Before Metcalfe and fellow officials flew to Brisbane to brief
Abbott, they briefed senior journalists in Canberra. During the journalists'
briefing, Metcalfe was asked what would happen if the government reverted to
onshore processing. There is no official transcript of the session but,
according to notes taken by this journalist and cross referenced with those of
three others, Metcalfe said onshore processing would see a return to the peak
levels of boat arrivals witnessed last year. Metcalfe said to expect "600-plus
people every month or higher". Consequently, in just over a year, Australia's
mainland detention centres would be full and "long-term detention would become
unviable". "Large numbers" of asylum seekers would have to be released into the
community, as they are in London and Paris. This could create underclasses and
threaten "our multicultural society, which works so bloody well because everyone
has equal status". "That's why I think this High Court case has frankly a bigger
impact - if it stands - on Australia than Mabo and Wik because this could change
the nature of our society and make it more like Europe, where large numbers of
asylum seekers turn up." Metcalfe said this prospect could unfold over the next
20 years and that it was "highly speculative". He never specified riots. Soon
after the briefing, internet stories started appearing saying Abbott had been
told to expect Europe-style social problems if Australia drops offshore asylum
seeker processing. After Abbott was briefed, his press secretary rang
journalists to reject this, saying Metcalfe never mentioned 600 people a month,
riots, Europe or anything else much about onshore processing. It was all about
Pacific options. By the next day, it was out of control. "Abbott told to expect
rioting", was one newspaper headline. Bob Brown called Metcalfe a turkey, a
xenophobe and demanded he be sacked for "prognosticating somehow or other about
Australia becoming Paris or London burning".

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              May 31, 2004 Monday

Canada's welcome mat

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 558 words


In its enthusiasm for immigrants, Canada stands alone in the Western world. This
country is being transformed by waves of immigrants from the Far East, Africa
and other distant points. Yet there is scant evidence of the fear or anxiety
that often accompanies rapid change. Canadians like what is happening to their
country.

A poll of nine Western countries published last week by Ipsos-Public Affairs for
The Associated Press confirmed it. In seven of those countries, more people felt
immigrants were a bad influence than felt they were a good one. This was true in
the United States, Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Britain and Mexico. Britain
was the most negative; 60 per cent of those polled said immigrants were a very
bad or somewhat bad influence. In Japan, people were split down the middle.

In Canada, however, the score was not even close. Seventy-three per cent
feltthat immigrants were a very good or somewhat good influence. Just 21 said
they were a bad influence. (The rest were not sure.)

This is a remarkable result. Canada has accepted 220,000 immigrants and refugees
a year, on average, since 1989, shortly after Progressive Conservative prime
minister Brian Mulroney began his second term in office. As a proportion of
population, that's about twice what the United States accepts each year. Half of
thecurrent newcomers to this country are from the Asia-Pacific region, 20 per
cent from Africa and the Middle East, and just 17 per cent from Britain and
Europe. In other words, the vast majority are non-white, and a sizable number
are non-Christian, in a country that once was quite explicit in barring Chinese
and Sikhs, and that closed its gates to the Jewish peoplein the hour of their
greatest need.

But perhaps the poll results are not so surprising. Canada is one of the few
Western countries without a major anti-immigration party. In the current federal
election campaign, immigration has barely been discussed, except tangentially as
an urban issue; one reason the cities need more money is that 75 per cent of
immigrants settle in Toronto, Vancouver or Montreal. The cities need a bigger
stock of low-cost housing and more money for language training.

Be it in France, with its concerns about Muslim dress and anti-Semitic violence,
or in Spain, with its recent terrorist attacks, or in Britain, with its race
riots, Europe has struggled to absorb the migrants of the Third World.

Canada is by no means perfect. The same poll shows that Americans are more
likely than Canadians to say religious and ethnic diversity is a good thing. New
immigrants get off to a slower start and take longer to catch up than they did
30 years ago. There are security threats that need to be watched.

Still, Canada has done an excellent job of integrating the children of the
immigrants. Where once the peoples of Eastern Europe flocked to the vast spaces
of the Prairies (in 1913, an astonishing 400,000 foreigners settled in a country
of six million people), today the migrants find that even crowded cities have a
place for them. This is still, psychologically, an open society.

At a time of low birth rates nearly everywhere in the West (the U.S. is an
exception), the challenge of weaving productive immigrants seamlessly into the
national fabric is a great challenge. From all appearances, Canada is meeting it
magnificently.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2004 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday

Italian commentary says Syria crisis may mark end of US role as global policeman

LENGTH: 1064 words


Text of report by Italian privately-owned centrist newspaper La Stampa, on 4
September

[Commentary by Gianni Riotta: "A world without a referee"]

With the yes from the hawkish Senator McCain, from House Speaker Boehner, and
from the House Majority leader Eric Cantor, all of them Republicans, and from
Nancy Pelosi, the leader of the House Democrats, President Barack Obama has
taken a step, an important one although not a decisive one, towards finding a
way out of the Syria trap. The OK from Congress to the punitive raid against
Al-Asad for the use of gas appears to be, if not a foregone conclusion, then
less dependent on the party political moods of the Right and the Left.

However things turn out, a new global chapter is confirmed: We risk living in a
world without a referee, without a neighbourhood policeman, no superpower will
any longer act as guarantor of the status quo, and the Pax Americana, however
precarious, is on the wane. During the Cold War, Washington and Moscow used to
govern their spheres of influence, with the non-aligned countries, from the
Bandung Conference, ever since 1955, seeking space. The United States was trying
to contain the USRR, supporting Berlin during the Russian blockade, and
accepting the invasion of Czechoslovakia, just as the CPSU [Communist Party of
the Soviet Union] did not react to the pro-US coups in Latin America.

After the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, President Bush senior planned what he
called a New World Order, with democracy in Moscow too, a UN guarantee, and the
United States as a benign power to give assurance for the global market, trade,
and freedom. When Saddam invaded Kuwait, the coalition worked, the UN under
Perez de Cuellar gave its go-ahead, the Europeans and Arabs joined the
operation, and Kuwait was liberated. It seemed to be a new way forward, but it
only lasted a short time. In Moscow the period of Gorbachev and Yeltsin
surrendered the Kremlin to the new pan-Slav movement of Putin, hostile to the
United States and to democracy. In the United States, the New World Order was
opposed on the Left by the No Global movement, which, since Seattle in 1999, saw
globalization as the enemy, and on the Right by the isolationist extremists. In
1995, when the racist terrorist Tim McVeigh blew up the Federal Building in
Oklahoma City, the reason was his hatred for the New World Order. Clinton was to
lead the world against Milosevic in the Balkans, stopping the pogroms in Kosovo
and the war, but then multilateralism ran aground: a world without order.

The attack on the Twin Towers sent the United States into a war in Kabul and
Baghdad, but 10 years later - in the words of Secretary [of State] Kerry - "the
United States is tired of war," like the young girl Teresa Batista in the novel
by Jorge Amado. The right-wing populist Deputy Ron Paul said: "No to the war in
Syria, what does it matter to us, we don't have the money, we must not lose
soldiers, let them sort it out."

Today's dilemma is this: Will we have a world without a referee, without a
superpower? When China seems to act with too much impetuousness in the Pacific
Ocean, when it launches a fleet towards the Indian Ocean and an aircraft
carrier, friendly countries such as Australia, or former enemies such as
Vietnam, immediately look to the United States to act as a brake. The
Australians ask for and get a contingent of marines, Vietnam holds joint
manoeuvres with the Americans, whom it defeated in 1975, [saying:] "we fought
against the United States for 20 years; and [we have fought] against China for
2,000 [years]."

What is at stake today is this referee's uniform, the uniform of a worldwide
neighbourhood policeman: Does the United States still have the money, the Armed
Forces, the consensus, the ideals, and the vision to act as a leader in the 21st
century? Academics such as Kiishore Mahbubani are calling it the "Asian
century", but with China turning back in on itself over a difficult political
transition, and India slowing down its racing economy, while the rupee is losing
value, there is no sign of a leader from Asia. Russia is shut in on itself in
Putin's circle of oil and malice over human rights, from gays to Pussy Riot.
Europe, grappling with an economic crisis and euro crisis which has only been
starting to give some breathing space recently, does not seem to have a common
outlook for the future. Germany, France, Britain, Poland, and Italy are divided
by interests and culture. Europe the superpower is today further away than was
hoped at the time of the birth of the euro, and enlargement to take in the new
democracies in eastern Europe.

In the United States, the Tea Party, like Occupy Wall Street, the populist
right-wing and left-wing movements, do not want any multilateral,
internationalist vision, with Washington creating coalitions and consensus,
between the UN and the world. Many members of parliament are attracted by this
choice. The Congress vote will have tactical consequences on the war in Syria,
with a no vote strengthening Al-Asad a little, and a yes vote weakening him
slightly, but without ultimately changing the outcome of the clash, which will
remain uncertain and painful: Every minute, four Syrians choose the path of
exile. But the Congress vote on Syria will have strategic consequences on the
world. A rejection for Obama will for a long time reduce US status, prestige,
and credibility. A victory for him will confirm to Russia, China, Iran,
Hizballah, and North Korea, as well as the allies, that Washington does not
intend to abdicate its role as playmaker for global diplomacy and the global
economy. It is clear that both the enemies and the friends of the United States
are awaiting the vote with opposing hopes, and equal anxiety. In the words of
Senator Boxer, "we are voting on whether or not to turn ourselves into a paper
tiger."

It would be a fine thing for the Europeans, and Italy, which has been an ally of
the United States for two generations, not to sit and watch, by turns inert,
indifferent, prone to washing their hands of the affair, or like well-behaved
sports fans forced to hide their passion. And when Europe, that Sleeping Beauty,
awakes from its domestic sleep, it will find a world that has changed, and that
no longer has a Prince Charming, or indeed one cloaked in the Stars and Stripes.

Source: La Stampa, Turin, in Italian 4 Sep 13 pp 1, 29

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday
                                 Final Edition

World Briefs

BYLINE: Star News Services

SECTION: NEWS; World Briefs; Pg. C2

LENGTH: 1274  words


NORTH AMERICA

KENNEDY MEMOIR TELLS OF DRINKING, DESPAIR

NEW YORK - Edward Kennedy was haunted every day of his life by the
Chappaquiddick incident and traumatized for years by the assassinations of his
brothers, according to a leaked copy of his posthumously published memoir.

In his 532-page book, True Compass, the late senator admitted to "inexcusable"
behaviour after the Chappaquiddick car crash, saying he was dazed, scared and
panicked after the 1969 accident in which he drove off a bridge and left his
passenger to drown.

He said he made "terrible decisions" in leaving the scene with Mary Jo Kopechne
still in the car although he continued to be vague -- as he was at the time --
over why it took him 10 hours to report the accident on an island off
Massachusetts.

In the book, the senator described his desolation and "self-destructive" heavy
drinking after the assassination of a second brother, Robert, and his guilt
about pushing Joan, his first wife, "deeper into despair."

U.S., AUSSIES SEEK NAVAL EXERCISES WITH CHINA

The United States and Australia will invite China to take part in joint naval
and military exercises in a move that highlights the changing balance of power
in the Pacific.

Admiral Timothy Keating, the head of the U.S. Pacific Command, said the U.S. and
Australia had agreed to make the approach to the Chinese defence ministry. "We
are anxious to engage with them at the earliest opportunity," he told the Sydney
Morning Herald. "We want to understand much better than we do now China's
intentions. We would say, 'Don't stand in isolation in the Pacific.'"

He said the exercises could begin with small naval and land activities and
follow with personnel exchanges. He denied that building ties with China would
upset America's relationships with India, Japan or South Korea, its traditional
allies.

The move follows a fractious few months for Sino-Australian relations, during
which China detained Stern Hu, an Australian citizen working for Rio Tinto, the
mining company. Australia then upset Beijing by granting a visa to Rebiya
Kadeer, an ethnic Uighur leader blamed by China for recent race riots.

- - -

EUROPE

DUNCE CAP FOR FRENCH SCHOOLS' MINISTER

PARIS - France's new education minister has become a national laughing stock
after he handed out a document on how to tackle poor spelling that was full of
mistakes.

Dozens of howling errors crop up in the press pack that Luc Chatel's ministry
distributed to journalists this week.

Commentators awarded Chatel "the dunce's cap" for the mistakes, in which even a
basic phrase like "there are" (ce sont) was misspelled (se sont). The errors
were all the more embarrassing as they came amid a heated debate following the
release of a book calling for written French to be "simplified."

Francois de Closets, the author of Zero faute (No mistakes), said the rules
should be relaxed to take into account the spoken language and the rise of
e-mails.

JOURNALIST FLEES RUSSIA AFTER SHIP HIJACK MYSTERY

MOSCOW - A Russian journalist who alerted the world to the disappearance and
likely hijacking of the Arctic Sea cargo ship said on Thursday that he had fled
Russia in fear of his life.

Mikhail Voitenko has suggested that the ship might have been carrying a secret
Kremlin arms shipment for the Middle East. He believes it was not hijacked as
the Kremlin contends, but was intercepted by Israeli forces in an international
incident neither country wants made public.

He said he had flown to Turkey on Wednesday after receiving a menacing call from
a "a cold official voice" the previous day. "I was advised to leave," Voitenko
said. "I'm afraid." He refused to say who the caller was but hinted that it was
a state official. "Very important people got involved in this business. It was
half-private, half-state," he said.

Voitenko, who runs an online news service for a Moscow-based Russian transport
and shipping company, was the most prominent expert during the Arctic Sea
incident. The vessel, Maltese flagged with a Russian crew, was carrying timber
to Algeria when it was allegedly hijacked off the coast of Sweden. It was found
by the Russian navy three weeks later. The Kremlin has yet to supply a detailed
version of events, the crew has refused to say what happened, and the alleged
hijackers are in a Moscow jail.

FOCUS ON ITALIAN PM'S CHAUVINISM EARNS BAN

ROME - Silvio Berlusconi was accused on Thursday of using his influence over the
media to block the promotion of a film that accuses him of chauvinism.

Television channels controlled by the 72-year-old Italian prime minister refused
to air a trailer for Videocracy, leading to accusations of media censorship.

The film, which premiered at the Venice Film Festival on Thursday, chronicles
the impact of television on Italian society over the past 30 years, focusing on
the power wielded by Berlusconi's media empire.

He is accused of turning Italian television into a mindless diet of game shows
featuring scantily-clad showgirls.

The film's director, Erik Gandini, said the billionaire premier had made
television into a "monster" that used women as objects for the titillation of
the audience. "Outsiders laugh at our television, and at Berlusconi, but it has
had a very notable impact on our country," said Gandini.

- - -

ASIA

PROTESTERS CONFRONTED AFTER SYRINGE ATTACKS

SHANGHAI - Crowds of angry Han Chinese protesters took to the streets on
Thursday in Xinjiang province, the scene of deadly race riots in July, after
almost 500 people were allegedly stabbed with syringes.

Thousands of protesters, primarily from the Han ethnic majority, staged
demonstrations to complain of the lack of safety in the city. In the past week,
hundreds of residents of Urumqi, the western province's capital, have allegedly
been stabbed by people wielding syringes and threatening to infect them with
HIV.

Officials in the city held a press conference to say that 15 people had been
arrested over the attacks.

According to sources in the city, the officials claimed the gang had stabbed 480
people. However, all mention of the number of victims has now been censored.

ALCOHOL BANNED AT U.S. EMBASSY

KABUL - The U.S. embassy in Afghanistan has banned alcohol and assigned military
personnel to watch over the embassy's privately hired security guards following
allegations of prostitution, wild drinking games and initiation rites at their
living quarters.

After an emergency meeting called by Karl Eikenberry, the U.S. ambassador in
Kabul, an embassy statement said officials were interviewing guards employed by
ArmorGroup and were considering firing staff if necessary. "We've already
started to make changes to remedy some of the problems," said Caitlin Hayden, a
spokesman.

Hillary Clinton ordered an investigation into the allegations about the
behaviour of guards working for the security contractor.

A report by a U.S. watchdog said a "Lord of the Flies atmosphere" prevailed
among 450 guards stationed at the Camp Sullivan compound in the Afghan capital.
Photographs showed semi-naked guards and supervisors at parties flowing with
alcohol, while initiation rites included forcing new recruits to eat potato
chips from clenched buttocks.

- - -

MIDDLE EAST

IRAN'S NEW DEFENCE MINISTER TERROR SUSPECT

TEL AVIV - Iran installed as defence minister on Thursday a man wanted on
terrorist charges who said his appointment was a "decisive slap to Israel."

The country's parliament approved President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's nomination of
Ahmad Vahidi, who is wanted by Argentina over the 1994 bombing of a Jewish
centre that killed 85.

Israel and Argentina had earlier condemned the nomination and President Barack
Obama said the nomination was "disturbing."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Erik Gandini ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Crime; Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          November 16, 2005 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU wasters;
As GBP 85m of our cash pays for the French riots, Europe's budget is exposed
again

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 583  words


THE shocking waste of the EU was laid bare yesterday when auditors refused to
endorse its GBP 70billion spending for the eleventh year running.

The European Court of Auditors castigated Eurocrats for cooking the books,
saying their 2004 accounts remained littered with errors and irregularities.
This was despite concerns about financial mismanagement and fraud voiced for
more than a decade.

The report cited huge discrepancies in swathes of the EU spending - particularly
regional development grants, foreign aid and agricultural subsidies - as the
reason for not signing the accounts off.

For years the EU and its institutions have been accused of squandering public
money.

Included in the waste is GBP 670million on a new European Parliament building in
Brussels, which will only be used for six days a year, and GBP 650million a year
on subsidising tobacco farmers in Italy and Greece, while spending millions
elsewhere trying to get people to pack up.

The financial mess within the EU has been exposed just a day after the Daily
Express revealed British taxpayers would have to stump up GBP 85million to help
put right the French riots. Last night British MPs and pressure groups joined
the official auditors in calling for Brussels to clean up its act.

Shadow treasury minister Mark Francois said: "This is not just an unfortunate
'one-off ' but the eleventh year in a row that this has happened.

"Despite constant promises to reform the spending of the EU's budget, the
Commission has clearly failed to do so in practice.

"It would now be sheer folly to negotiate away the British Rebate - as Tony
Blair is currently doing -- in order to surrender even more British taxpayers'
money to an unreformed and financially unreliable EU Commission." Matthew
Elliott, of spending watchdog the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "If auditors failed
the accounts of a private company the business would be in serious trouble with
their shareholders, Companies House and possibly even the police.

"Yet the European Union has got away with dodgy accounts for over a decade.

"The Government should seriously consider withholding all or part of Britain's
contribution to the EU budget until the Commission roots out the fraud. After
all, it's our money they're wasting."

Yesterday the European Commission, which manages the EU's vast budget, brazenly
welcomed the auditors' assessment that there have been improvements in
accountability in Brussels, even though they still refused to sign them off.

However, the EU's former chief accountant, Marta Andreasen, who was sacked after
blowing the whistle on fraud, said the latest debacle showed that Brussels was
in no mood to change.

"The fact that the European Court of Auditors has refused to sign off the
accounts for the eleventh year doesn't show that there is any improvement at
all, even if the Commission puts out a list of small improvements, " she said.
"There seems to be a culture that is not very inclined to improve things."
Conservative MEP James Elles yesterday warned that the accountants' refusal to
clear the books was in danger of becoming a permanent feature of the EU.

He accused the Government of "dodging the issue" by failing to tackle the
problem while Britain held the EU presidency.

The financial embarrassment follows a survey showing confidence in the EU is at
an all time low. Fewer than half the population of member states now trust
Brussels.

In Britain the figure is just 31 per cent, compared with an average of 46 per
cent across the 25country bloc.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Yesterday's Daily Express

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 39 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            November 3, 2006 Friday
                                National Edition

What's good for Turkey is good for France

BYLINE: Sumaira Shaikh, National Post

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 576  words


Yesterday, it was announced that an emergency meeting between Turkey and the
European Union had been canceled, dealing a fresh blow to Turkey's bid to join
the EU. The problem in this case involved a disagreement over Turkey's
relationship with Cyprus. But the setback highlights the more general hostility
toward Turkey exhibited by many European nations. That hostility is rooted in
the fact that Turkey's 70 million people are mostly Muslim, while the EU is
mostly Christian.

The roots of this stubborn hostility were on display in October, when the lower
house of France's legislature sought to criminalize denial of the 1915-1917
Armenian genocide by the Ottoman Turks, a bill that predictably caused an uproar
in Turkey.

Turkey holds that the deaths of the Armenians were not the result of an
organized, premeditated slaughter. But French President Jacques Chirac said
Turkey must recognize the Armenian deaths as genocide before it joins the EU.
The campaign seems to be aimed at thwarting Turkey's membership in the EU for
purely cynical reasons: If Turkey gains entry, it will become the second most
populous EU nation, after Germany, with more power and leverage than France.

The Turkish parliament responded in kind, with a plan to criminalize denial of
the "Algerian genocide" by the French during 132 years of colonization in
Algeria. There was also heated talk of breaking trade links with France. Turkey
wisely abandoned these ideas: They only would have exacerbated the dispute.

The French bill has had some benefit, though: It exposed European double
standards.

The reality is that both the Ottoman and French Empires did plenty of bad
things. Even modern-day France, for all the lectures it gives the United States,
is beset by racism and de-facto segregation of its Arab population, problems
that rose to the surface during last year's suburban Paris riots. If Europe
doesn't allow Turkey into the EU because of Ankara's attitude toward past
human-rights abuses, then everyone else should be expelled from the EU club as
well. The region's history was a violent one, and all nations have blood on
their hands.

France's government has its head deeper in the sand than most, however. Last
year, the French passed a law that required high-school teachers to teach the
"positive values" associated with colonialism, and to emphasize the positive
role of the French presence abroad, especially in North Africa.

This created an uproar in former French colonies, leading Abdelaziz Bouteflika,
President of Algeria, to decline a planned friendship treaty with France. While
the offending legislation was repealed earlier this year, the damage was done.
In Canada, legislation like this would never have even seen the light of day.

Among French politicians, the sense of history is highly selective. You cannot
have a double standard about what is history and what is not.

The time has now come for France and its European friends to stop bullying
Turkey. They need to accept it into the EU without hypocritical pre-conditions.
No one is innocent in Europe. Everyone has a part of history to be ashamed of,
whether it is Turkey, Germany or France.

We need to move on and be more constructive. The world is a bad enough place,
with genocides taking place right under our noses in Darfur and elsewhere. We do
little about them, perhaps because we are too busy fighting over genocides of
the past.

sumaira.shaikh@gmail.com

- Sumaira Shaikh is a Toronto-based writer.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2006 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

CD REVIEWS

BYLINE: Bernard Zuel, Chloe Sasson, George Palathingal, John Shand, Andrea
Black, Paris Pompor, Bruce Elder

SECTION: METRO; Music; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 672 words


brendan welch

THE UNBEAT

(Fur/Shock)

There are a couple of moments on this album where 22-year-old Melburnian Brendan
Welch sounds like Willie Nelson. Welch is more weathered than you'd expect and
more gently uplifting than you realise at first with his slow, sad songs of
death and damaged love. Bare-bones arrangements of blues-based country songs put
the emphasis on his voice and lyrics. Once you've entered Welch's grey-sky world
you see the depths and you are happy to dive in again. Bernard Zuel

nobody & mystic chords of memory

TREE COLORED SEE

(Mush/Stomp)

American hip-hop producer Nobody joins psych-pop outfit Mystic Chords of Memory
to create a wonderful blend of shimmery, summertime pop, folktronica and
psychedelic hip-hop. Lonely harmonicas, tambourines and acoustic guitar are
treated with a hint of electronic magic, falling somewhere between Simon and
Garfunkel and modern pop acts such Belle & Sebastian.

This will leave you smiling. Chloe Sasson

the charlatans

SIMPATICO

(Sanctuary/Shock)

Swaggering northern Englishmen such as the Stone Roses and Oasis had moments of
zeitgeist-owning glory, but fellow band the Charlatans never really did. As
another Charlatans album fails to deliver on its promising opening, it looks
safe to say their time has passed. Ska shuffles and dub grooves sneak in among
the '70s guitar riffs and swirling organs of their more familiar soulful rock.
None of it is particularly bad. However, the sheer pop euphoria of which we know
they're capable never surfaces and it's sorely missed. George Palathingal

pink martini

SYMPATHIQUE

(Inertia)

American group Pink Martini's debut has been re-released following the
popularity of last year's Hang on Little Tomato. The sense of being caught in a
time warp is even more palpable: music from an era when up-market bars had leggy
cigarette girls. Pasteurised Latin sounds for non-Latinos was a favoured recipe,
as it is here,

garnished with sugar cubes of other colours.

This is tame music that won't obscure the taste of your cocktail. John Shand

old crow medicine show

SELF-TITLED

(Nettwerk/Shock)

This young American bluegrass band get up to a lot of hollering and rambling,
with lyrics condemning cocaine, championing corn liquor and questioning Vietnam.
Half of the tunes are traditional, but even the originals sound like they were
made 70 years ago. It's delivered pure and tastefully produced by David Rawlings
- cohort of Gillian Welch, who plays on the album - making this a fine example
of authentic Appalachia. Andrea Black

david mcalmont

YOU GO TO MY HEAD

(Blueport/CreativeVibes)

This British singer has the voice of an angel and the visage to match.
McAlmont's vibrato and reed-like timbre can gently weep, while his androgynous
tone is given further poignancy as the genders are flipped in these standards'
original lyrics. The effect is amplified in Johnny Mercer's Blues in the Night:
Momma was right when she "done told me" that men are basically "two-faced
worrisome" louts. The uncomplicated jazz arrangements of Porter or Gershwin
classics are sometimes detractingly phrased, but the voice is a diamond. Paris
Pompor

the essential rock '70's & '80's

Various artists

(SonyBMG)

Apart from punk, disco and Dark Side of the Moon, there wasn't much that was
essential about the 1970s and 1980s. This impossibly drab collection has some of
the worst of the two decades. So if you want 36 tracks that include, wait for
it, Ted Nugent, Blue Oyster Cult, Heart, Judas Priest, Loverboy, Kenny Loggins,
Quiet Riot, Europe and Joe Satriani, then this is the pile of forgettable junk
you've been waiting for. Australia is represented by Hush, Mi-Sex, Noiseworks
and the Party Boys. How weird is that? Bruce Elder

DVD coachella

Various artists

(Anti/Shock)

Noel Gallagher wonders how a music festival can be right if it doesn't have rain
and mud. You may wonder, too, but you'd be fortunate to see Radiohead, Pixies,
Bjork, Belle & Sebastian, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Flaming Lips and Saul Williams
play under clear skies. The best bits are the performances. Bernard Zuel

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                              May 16, 2011 Monday

Opposition trial is new low for Belarus: UK

LENGTH: 185  words

DATELINE: London


London, May 16 -- Britain expressed its deep concern today at the jailing of
Belarus opposition leader Andrei Sannikov, saying it marked a "new low" for the
rule of law in the country.

"I am deeply concerned to learn that Andrei Sannikov, who stood as a candidate
in the presidential election last December, has been sentenced by a court in
Belarus to a five-year prison term for the organisation of 'mass riots'," Europe
minister David Lidington said. "The conduct of his trial has marked a new low
for the rule of law in Belarus. Mr Sannikov is guilty of nothing more than the
peaceful expression of his opinion about the results of December's flawed
elections." Lidington said his thoughts were with Sannikov's family and the
families of his four co-defendants, who were handed sentences of up to
three-and-a-half years in the same trial.

The United States condemned his conviction as "politically motivated" Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Pak Banker. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

GREECE OKS CUTS AMID RIOTS

BYLINE: BY HELEN KENNEDY DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER With News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262 words


BY HELEN KENNEDY DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

IGNORING RIOTERS surging around their parliament building, Greek lawmakers
approved drastic budget cuts yesterday as part of their crucial $140 billion
European bailout.

Stone-throwing protesters tried to storm the Athens parliament building but were
repelled by baton-wielding cops as lawmakers cast their votes inside.

Greece's economy is bankrupt and the euro bailout is contingent on austerity
measures that require deep cuts in public pensions and tax hikes.

"The situation today is simple - either we vote and implement the deal or we
condemn the country to bankruptcy," Prime Minister George Papandreou said.

The cuts are vastly unpopular: Ordinary people feel they are being made to pay
for the mistakes and corruption of fat-cat financiers and politicians.

Tens of thousands of people rioted Wednesday, and some set fire to a bank,
killing three workers who were trapped inside. Thursday's protests were violent,
but not fatal.

Three ministers from Papandreou's governing Socialist Party abstained from
voting and were then expelled from the party.

Germany, holder of the fattest purse strings in Europe, votes today on the Greek
bailout package. German lawmakers also are expected to approve the legislation,
even though the German public strongly opposes helping Greece.

Fears that Greek debt problems will be "contagious" - undermining the euro and
spreading weakness - were hurting markets globally.

The rating agency Moody's warned that Portugal, Italy, Spain and Ireland could
be next to face a crisis.

hkennedy@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police in Athens stand outside Greek parliament building as protesters
such as this man vent their wrath. Photo by AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Daily News, L.P.


                               22 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            September 5, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The New Agenda

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 669 words


After a busy summer the political season begins in earnest this week. Each party
faces its problems but the biggest is the mood of pessimism outside Westminster
The political summer holiday never really happened this year. With momentous
events in Libya, turmoil on the financial markets and riots in British cities,
there was little respite for the political class. The busy summer helped to set
a new agenda for the political season, which begins in earnest this week. The
political response to the riots, to Europe and to the economic slowdown will
determine the political laurels for the next session. For the Conservative
Party, the August riots did give some content to the idea that David Cameroon
mooted before the general election of 2010 - the notion that parts of Britain
were broken. In speeches last month Mr Cameron mused on the extent of moral
collapse in Britain and the lawlessness and looting do offer the Conservatives a
clear direction in an area of policy - law and order - in which its
authoritarian instincts had, until now, clashed with its desire to show a
liberal face. There is a popular mandate for a tough stance on the lawbreakers
and the electorate will reward a government that enforces it.

For all the summer attention on the riots, it is still the performance of the
economy on which immediate political fortunes will rest. There is no doubt that
the prospects for the British economy are a concern. However, the continuing
crisis in the European economies is making, by default, a good case for the
radical deficit reduction upon which the coalition embarked as soon as it took
office. The difficulties for economies that have not been prepared to live
within their means have been plain for all to see.

That is not to say, however, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer can afford to
sit back and blithely wait for growth to return. Rapid deficit reduction is a
necessary but not a sufficient condition of a return to stable growth. After a
number of abortive iterations, the Government is still without a credible plan
for growth. The definition of a sophisticated industrial policy must be the
primary task of domestic politics in the next session.

This should be a task in which Liberal Democrats engage fully. Too many of their
number seem still to be wrestling with the defining dilemma of being in
coalition. First with the revised NHS Bill, and more lately by striking
opposition to the idea that free schools might one day turn a profit, Nick
Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, has been seeking distance between his party and the
Government as a whole. This is a temptation to be avoided. The Lib Dems have no
option but to make a virtue and success of being in government.

The position of the Labour Party is more complex.

In his first speech as Labour leader, Ed Miliband signalled that a liberal
approach on law and order would be a point of agreement between the political
parties. Now that consensus appears not to be on offer, Mr Miliband has to
decipher where to place his party. On the pivotal question of the economy he
seems to have made his choice. Labour continues to evince ambivalence about the
need for cuts. Although committed in theory to halving the deficit in four
years, Labour has produced no plan for doing so and opposes all cuts as if all
good and desirable things can be had at once.

The difficulty of the Labour position is exacerbated by the fact that the Prime
Minister returns after a significant success in foreign policy, with the rebel
triumph in Libya. Mr Cameron's biggest problem may not, in fact, come from the
official opposition. It may come from the fact that, beyond the Westminster
village, there is a good deal of pessimism about the state of the nation which
was crystallised by, but not caused by, the riots in the summer.

The task for the Government is to lift that mood, with a bold intervention on
law and order, a new vision for Europe now that this country's relationship with
the European Union is live again, and a modern industrial policy.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               23 of 39 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 7, 2000, Friday

'HELL' THAT BURNS THE HOTTEST FOR THE ENGLISH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 279 words


FANS of Galatasaray pride themselves on being the most terrifying in European
football.

Every team visiting Istanbul to play them is greeted with the message "Welcome
to Hell."

Home fans arrive at the intimidating 40,000-seat Ali Sami Yen Stadium hours
before the game, ready to start whipping themselves into a frenzy before kick
-off.

But although their reputation is fearsome, Galatasaray's followers only seem to
get violent when the English are in town.

The worst flashpoint came in 1993, when Manchester United were knocked out of
the European Cup in Istanbul. Almost 200 English fans were held by police after
a rampage at a hotel.

Former Rangers manager Graeme Souness, who coached Galatasaray, insists the fans
are no more than passionate.

But club officials are still aware of the damage the deaths will do their
already tarnished image.

Galatasaray official Seniz Erzek said: "This will have a terrible effect on
Galatasaray, on Turkish soccer, and most important of all on Turkey's prestige."

For their part, Leeds fans were among the first to show the full ugliness of
English hooliganism. Their 1975 European Cup final with Bayern Munich was marred
by the worst football riots Europe had seen at that time.

Known for their fanatical hatred of Manchester United and belligerent chants of
"We are Leeds", the Elland Road fans have never quite shaken off their bad
reputation.

This latest bloodshed is yet another blow to English claims that their fans are
fit to welcome others to the 2006 World Cup.

Convincing the football community that terrace violence has been conquered is a
key to the success of their bid to stage the tournament.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.


                               24 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                             August 21, 2016 Sunday
                              CourierMail Edition

JAIL NOT the TICKET

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 112 words


YOU'D think things couldn't get any worse for IOC top dog Pat Hickey who was
arrested in the nude this week.

But it turns out they can - he was taken to Brazil's maximum security prison
yesterday.

The notorious Bangu 10 jail is no place for a 71-year-old Irishman, which is
said to be home to some of the country's most dangerous inmates and has
previously been the scene of murders and riots.

Europe's top Olympic official is under suspicion over an illegal ticket selling
scheme.Hickey complained of chest pain after his arrest, was taken to hospital,
then handed back to Rio police. The scheme apparently helps pass tickets to
vendors to resell them for far above face value.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               25 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                             August 21, 2016 Sunday
                               Advertiser Edition

Rio 2016 CONFIDENTIAL BAD WEEK FOR BOSS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 113  words


YOU'D think things couldn't get any worse for IOC top dog Pat Hickey who was
arrested in the nude this week.

Turns out they can - he was transported to Brazil's maximum security prison
yesterday.

The notorious Bangu 10 jail - no place for a 71-year-old Irishman - is said to
be home to some of the country's most dangerous inmates and has previously been
the scene of murders and riots.

Europe's top Olympic official is under suspicion of being caught up in an
illegal ticket-sales plot. The scheme apparently helps pass tickets to vendors
to resell them for far below face value.Hickey complained of chest pain after
his arrest, was taken to hospital, then handed back to Rio police.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               26 of 39 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 21, 2001

The city burns, a young man lies dead and around him the battle rages on

BYLINE: John Vidal in Genoa

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words


In front of me a young man lies dead under a white sheet. His body is surrounded
by 80 police officers in gas masks, with riot shields, truncheons and guns. Not
one looks more than 20 years old - the age of the dead man, Carlo Giuliani, from
Rome. They shift nervously. No one knows exactly what happened. A doctor says
the man has two head wounds. One looks like the wound from a stone, she says.
The other, in his cheek, could be that of a bullet.

One demonstrator says he heard a gunshot. Another says he saw the body driven
over by a police van, at the height of one of the worst riots that Europe has
known in decades.

The youth lies dead and Genoa is burning, a city in which Tony Blair and his
fellow leaders of the G8 group of the richest countries are meeting behind 13ft
steel barricades, protected by 18,000 police officers. Questions are already
being asked about whether city-based summits like this can be held again.

There is a temporary silence as an ambulance comes to take away the body, and
both sides contemplate what has happened. But just 200 yards away, on a side
street, eight officers have cornered another young man fleeing from them. They
pile in and he takes 20 blows to his head and body. Amazingly, he gets up,
bloodied, staggering and disori ented, then collapses. The volunteer medics rush
to him.

The helicopters buzz 75ft overhead, and back in the square the shocked crowd is
furious. They chant "assassins, assassins" at the police.

This was one of most beautiful cities in Europe. Now stones and rubbish litter
the streets. Shops, banks, supermarkets, post offices, garages and other
businesses are destroyed. All around is desolation, fury and destruction.

Fires still burn round Brignole rail station. Police vans, armoured personnel
carriers, water cannon and protesters rush through the town. Teargas is fired in
one direction as the stones fly in another. Nobody knows quite what has happened
or where trouble will flare. The only certain thing is that 93 have been
injured, by the official tally. Behind me a park of 20 cars has been torched.
The air is thick with smoke, teargas and anger.

Accusations of overzealous policing and violent demonstrators fly. But this is a
complex situation. Not all protesters or all police are intent on wreaking
havoc.

Up to 2,000 anarchists pulled the trigger for the violence. They are mainly
German, with some Italians, French and other Europeans. Some are British members
of the Animal Liberation Front, scrawling "ALF" on the walls.

Of the 35,000 to 40,000 demonstrators here, all but that small minority of
anarchists have signed up to the principle of peaceful protest. But the
activists say the way the police reacted to the anarchists and ambushed peaceful
marchers has inflamed thousands.

The Genoa Social Forum, with its 700 groups from across the world committed to
non-violence, negotiated with the police and is devastated. "This is
unacceptable," says a spokesman. "We have been provoked by a level of state and
anarchist violence that was unimaginable. The G8 and the government must be
blamed, but we must accept our share of responsibility."

In Via Tolemead, confrontation becomes inevitable the moment the police rush
forward to grab the plastic barricades of one of the marchers. The crowd behind
surges for ward and three people fall. The police beat a man. The protesters
surge forward and gain 20 yards. Suddenly the police are in retreat. A spokesman
for the protesters comes forward to negotiate: "We had agreed this route," he
says. The police retreat again.

But now some of the anarchists have started stoning the police from a side
street. A van of carabinieri stalls and the anarchists launch themselves on it,
as if on a wounded animal. In minutes they have broken all its windows. The five
policemen inside open the doors and run for it. The van is torched, to cheers.

All day there has been mayhem. Sticks, stones, teargas, fireworks, flares,
bottles and truncheons have been thrown back and forth. Barricades of wood and
metal have been set alight under a bridge. It is now 7.30pm. In the distance
protesters and the police are beating their drums under a pall of smoke. The
battle for the city has lasted eight hours and may go on sporadically all night.

Hours after Carlo Giuliani's death, protesters have created a makeshift shrine,
heaping red flowering plants they uprooted from a nearby public garden. A piece
of notebook paper, weighed down with a teargas canister, is scrawled with the
words, "Made in G8".

In one square, the anarchists still rule. A dozen have broken into a small
supermarket, ransacked shelves and are handing out ice-cream and wine. They are
dangerously drunk.

One, a German, snatches my notebook, spits in my face, raises his stick. He
looks no more than 20. His comrades strut around behind black flags and drums,
smashing and burning everything, turning on anyone in their path.

Genoa summit, pages 4 and 5


LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                               27 of 39 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 2, 2003

G8 summit: Carnival turns to confrontation: Police clash with anti-capitalists
after day of peaceful protest

BYLINE: Stuart Millar in Annemasse, France

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 976 words


Chaos last night threatened to overshadow what had been a carnival atmosphere
among anti-globalisation protesters as police in Geneva and Lausanne fought with
groups of anarchists and anti-capitalists. The worst fears of the Swiss
authorities were being realised: while France enjoyed the glory of hosting the
leaders of the world's richest nations, sealed off by a 10-mile security cordon
enforced by 25,000 police and troops, Switzerland was left to mop up the debris.

It had started off so well: more than 75,000 anti-globalisation activists from
around the world marching peacefully to the French-Swiss border in a gesture of
defiance to the G8 leaders tucked away behind a ring of steel 25 miles up the
road in the spa resort of Evian. For a few hours yesterday afternoon, as the
marchers in the main rally partied and chanted their way through Annemasse and
Geneva, it looked as if the dire warnings of the event descending into violence
were going to be confounded.

The most serious casualty was a 39-year-old British protester, named as Martin
Shaw, from London, who fell from a motorway bridge after a policeman cut the
rope he was hanging from while trying to hang up a banner. He suffered multiple
fractures, although sources said his injuries were serious rather than critical.
A police spokesman said an inquiry had been launched.

A news photographer, Dan Smallman, 31, of Images Sans Frontieres, from Brixton,
south London, also suffered serious muscle damage to his leg after a stun
grenade exploded near him. He underwent two hours of surgery and will have to
undergo skin grafts.

Amid accusations from each side that it was the other which was hell-bent on
trouble, the focus of last night's disturbances was in the centre of Geneva.
Around 7.30pm, as many of the demonstrators were celebrating the success of the
main rally, the fuse was lit when a group of about 30 clashed with police near
the Rue du Strand.

The police response was uncompromising: they fired volleys of teargas and
plastic bullets and mounted baton charges to push the protesters back towards
the Usine, the building that was being used as a coordination centre for the
protest activities.

As the clashes rapidly escalated into a riot, the protesters lobbed molotov
cocktails and stones at the police lines. To add to the combustibility of the
situation, local youths also became embroiled in the battles with police,
according to the independent media.

"Within a few minutes . . . violent agitators carried out true urban guerrilla
warfare and ravaged the centre of Geneva, only to disappear and later melt into
the peaceful demonstration," Geneva's head of justice, police and security,
Micheline Spoerri, told Swiss television.

After the rioters had been pushed back to the Usine, police surrounded the
building and then raided it, detaining several people. There had been sporadic
skirmishes earlier when anarchists wearing black hoods and ski masks had
rampaged through Geneva looting shops and - to the chant of "No blood for oil" -
ransacked petrol stations.

In Lausanne, 31 miles along the side of Lake Geneva, scores of protesters were
arrested after police used teargas and plastic bullets to force them back from
the hotel districts, where many of the summit guests are staying. But these
clashes were isolated and quickly snuffed out by the security forces.

Painful memories

For the anti-globalisation movement all this brings back painful memories of the
G8 summit in Genoa two years ago which disintegrated into the worst riots Europe
had seen for a generation. One Italian protester was shot dead during three days
of pitched battles between anarchists and police.

In Evian, as in Genoa, the trouble involved small anarchist groups which have
little in common with the majority of protesters. Last night, the organisers of
the Evian protests were quick to distance themselves from the violence. "We have
no idea who these people were. It has nothing to do with the demonstration,
which was a very, very big success," said Christophe Aguiton.

The contrast with the afternoon's main rally could not have been more stark.
Tens of thousands turned out on both sides of the border - among them pink and
silver fairies from Berlin, young Greens from Lyon and health workers from
Manchester, as well as every variety of French communist known to man.

It took them three hours to snake through the near-deserted streets, bashing out
constant samba rhythms on plastic oil drums and chanting: "They are eight, we
are millions".

Ironically, it was the group that did not turn up for the rally yesterday which
may have contributed most to it passing off peacefully: the police.

Although clashes earlier in the weekend had increased tensions, from the start
of the march outside Annemasse's aerodrome, all the way through the town, across
the border into Switzerland and then back into France, there was not a single
police officer to be seen. There were no helicopters swooping overhead and even
the border crossings at Moiellesulaz and Vallard were locked up and abandoned.

Bruno Rebelle, the director of Greenpeace France, said this was because the
lessons of Genoa had been learned.

"In the preparation stage, we had good contact with the authorities and they
clearly understood that the big mistake in Genoa was to have such a heavy,
aggressive police presence. Most people are here to protest peacefully but there
are some groups who go looking for fights. If there are no police here there is
no one for them to fight."

In Annemasse at least, the peace remained intact. About 1,000 people marched
from the activist camp on the north-west outskirts to the centre of the town to
protest about the arrests in Geneva. Despite a heavy police presence, the march
passed off without any trouble.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                               28 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                             August 21, 2016 Sunday
                               Telegraph3 Edition

RIO CONFIDENTIAL

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. 104

LENGTH: 178  words


IOC TOP DOG IN HELLISH PRISON YOU'D think things couldn't get any worse for IOC
top dog Pat Hickey who was arrested in the nude this week.

Turns out they can - he was transported to Brazil's maximum security prison
yesterday.

The notorious Bangu 10 jail is no place for a 71-year-old Irishman, as the
prison is said to be home to some of the country's most dangerous inmates and
has previously been the scene of murders and riots.

Europe's top Olympic official is under suspicion of being caught up in an
illegal ticket selling plot.

Hickey complained of chest pain after his arrest, was taken to hospital, then
handed back to Rio police.

The scheme apparently helps pass tickets to vendors to resell them for far above
face value.

TENNIS ACES IT IT'S a good week to be a tennis player.

Tinder data out from the Games has revealed athletes in which sports were most
swiped right in the dating app.

If you're unfamiliar with Tinder, swiping right means it's someone you want
contact with, For men, tennis was top of the table.The most popular women on
tennis played table tennis.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Telegraph


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               31 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

European drought raises fears of food riots

BYLINE: ADAM SAGE

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 557  words


The agriculture sector is in the grip of a crisis

BERNARD Maquis's cattle would normally be grazing in the lush green pastures of
the Limousin region, in central France, at this time of year. Instead, they are
eating hay intended for the winter after months of drought have turned the
fields yellow.

He is wondering whether it might be better to sell his cows at a reduced price
rather than find himself without fodder by the end of the autumn. ``I'm starting
to sleep badly,'' he said.

Mr Maquis is not alone. With northern Europe facing its worst drought since
1976, politicians in the West are expecting protests from farmers, consumer
discontent and a strain on budgets. Third World nations are braced for riots as
Europe's heatwave creates a rise in food prices and drives millions deeper into
poverty.

``We are in a situation of crisis and of crisis management,'' French Ecology
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said. Meteorologists say that northern
Europe has had 50 per cent less rain than normal over the past two months, while
temperatures have been 4C higher than usual.

In France, water restrictions have been implemented across more than half the
country and the drought is already comparable to 1976, when a heatwave wrecked
the annual harvest.

The difference, according to Michele Blanchard, an engineer in the climatology
division of Meteo-France, the weather office, is that ``in 1976, the high
temperatures came in June, not in April''.

Germany has had twice as many hours of sunshine as it would normally expect in
the spring. Some German regions have had just 5 per cent of their standard
rainfall. ``We desperately need rain,'' said Andrea Adams, spokeswoman for the
Farmers Association, in Rhineland-Palatinate.

She said that the wheat was yellow, the sugar beet had barely grown at all and
the rye was ``curling up and dying''.

In the Limousin, Mr Maquis said that the corn to fatten his cattle in the winter
should be 20cm high by now. ``But it's just vegetating,'' he said, raising the
prospect that he will have to buy in fodder. ``But at the price we have to pay,
it's not even worth trying. We may as well just shut up shop.''

With breeders across France beginning to sell animals they cannot feed, protests
are under way. In southwest France, farmers blocked roads to a motorway for
several hours last week after they failed to obtain temporary permission to take
water from rivers.

The French Government has asked Brussels to pay 710 million ($948m) in European
Union aid several months early. But the French farmers' union also wants the
state to underwrite interest-free loans to help les agriculteurs through the
summer.

In France, bakers' unions are predicting an increase in the cost of baguettes,
while in North Rhine-Westphalia, the German region, tomatoes are 26 per cent
more expensive than last year. Governing parties fear that the rises will create
anti-government sentiment that extreme movements will exploit.

With droughts also reported in China and southern US states, the Food and
Agriculture Organisation of the UN fears rioting in poor countries.

But not everyone is complaining. Cherry growers said their fruit was of
exceptional quality, the European tourist industry is also pleased, while the
salt harvesters of Guerande, in western France, are happy to gather produce two
months earlier than usual.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               32 of 39 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            December 12, 2008 Friday
                              North Wales Edition

Greek riots: Europe fear

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 347 words


AS Greece suffered its sixth day of violence yesterday there were troubling
signs of unrest spreading across Europe.

Youths smashed shop windows, attacked banks and hurled bottles at police in
small but violent protests in Spain and Denmark, while cars were set alight
outside a consulate in France.

The incidents have been isolated so far, but there is concern that the Greek
riots - which started over the police killing of a 15-year-old on Saturday -
could be a trigger for anti-globalization groups and others outraged by economic
turmoil and a lack of job opportunities.

"What's happening in Greece tends to prove that the extreme left exists,
contrary to doubts of some over these past few weeks," French Interior Ministry
spokesman Gerard Gachet said.

At least some of the protests appear to have been organised over the internet,
showing how quickly a message can be spread. One website that Greek protesters
have been using claims there have been sympathy protests in nearly 20 countries.

In Denmark protesters pelted riot police with bottles and paint in Copenhagen.
Some 63 people were detained.

In Spain youths attacked banks, shops and a police station in separate
demonstrations in Madrid and Barcelona.

Some of the protesters chanted "police killers" and other slogans. Eleven people
- including a Greek girl - were arrested at the two rallies, and two police
officers were lightly injured.

In France, protesters set fire to two cars outside the Greek consulate in
Bordeaux and scrawled graffiti on the building threatening more unrest.

Elsewhere in Europe, more than 15 people occupied a Greek consulate in Berlin on
Monday, hanging a banner out the window with the dead Greek teenager's name and
the words, "Killed by the State."

About 100 people protested outside the Greek consulate in Frankfurt on Tuesday
evening and minor violence was reported on the peripheries of the demonstration,
including the breaking of a bank's window.

Meanwhile in Athens the protests continued yesterday with students attacking 20
police stations with rocks and bottles.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


                               33 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

Pussy Riot profile: Maria Alyokhina

BYLINE: Miriam Elderguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 316 words

ABSTRACT

Unofficial spokeswoman for Pussy Riot, Maria Alyokhina has challenged witnesses
and remains defiant over the charges

FULL TEXT

Maria Alyokhina, 24, has emerged as the unofficial spokeswoman of Pussy Riot,
making impassioned speeches and conducting sharp questioning of witnesses from
inside the glass cage where she had been tried with her bandmates.

She spent the trial studying witness testimony and reading a pamphlet on
Russia's criminal code, and took to wearing glasses as the trial went on,
something her lawyers said was a sign of fatigue.

Her anger at what Pussy Riot's lawyers have called a show trial was visible from
day one. Asked if she understood the charges levied against her - hooliganism
motivated by religious hatred - Alyokhina was defiant.

"I don't understand the ideological side of the question," she said, pausing for
dramatic effect as she stared down the judge from behind the glass. "I don't
understand on what basis you're making statements about my motivations." Another
dramatic pause. "And I don't understand why I'm not allowed to explain this."
YouTube video of the speech went viral and made her a star.

Alyokhina was in her fourth year at Moscow's Institute of Journalism and
Creative Writing when she was arrested in March. She had done volunteer work
with ill children and was an activist with Greenpeace Russia. She is the mother
of a young child, Filipp.

Often caustic as the trial descended into absurdity, Alyokhina was all smiles
when her institute's deputy rector testified in defence of her character - her
main questions revolved around knowing what the school's professors thought of
her poetry.

Alyokhina summarised the main point of the trial in a letter read to the court
by her lawyer, Violetta Volkova, as an opening statement: "I thought the church
loved all its children, but it seems the church loves only those children who
believe in Putin."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               34 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             August 27, 2012 Monday

Pussy Riot: 'we still burn with desire to take Putin's monopoly on power'

BYLINE: Miriam Elderguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 975 words

ABSTRACT

Yekaterina Samutsevich tells Guardian from cell that jail sentence handed to
three band members shows Putin is scared

FULL TEXT

A jailed member of the anti-Kremlin punk band Pussy Riot has said that the
guilty verdict handed to her and two bandmates earlier this month has
strengthened her resolve to fight for the removal of Vladimir Putin.

In response to questions posed by the Guardian and handed to the band via their
lawyer, Yekaterina Samutsevich, 30, described for the first time to western
media the conditions the trio face and their reaction to the verdict.

Samutsevich said she did not fear the two-year sentence handed down by a Moscow
judge for their performance of an anti-Putin song in Moscow's official Orthodox
cathedral.

"Of course we didn't expect a not guilty verdict," she wrote. "To expect justice
from a court that ignores all your objections is of course impossible. So we
weren't shocked and, to the dismay of our enemies, didn't faint when we got the
verdict."

Samutsevich, along with bandmates Maria Alyokhina, 24, and Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 22, were found guilty of "hooliganism motivated by religious
hatred" for their February performance, despite insisting it was a form of
political protest. Their lightning-quick trial, marked by procedural violations
and absurdities, has highlighted the crackdown on dissent in Russia.

"More than anything, our trial showed the dependence of the justice system, and
its direct authority, on Putin's power, which clearly should not be the case in
a government that calls itself democratic," Samutsevich said. Pussy Riot and
their supporters have accused Putin, and the powerful Russian Orthodox church,
of orchestrating the case against them.

"Our verdict shows just how scared Putin's regime is of anyone who can undermine
its legitimacy," Samutsevich said. She decried the government's increasingly
conservative policies as well as a parliamentary vote in December 2011 that was
marred by widespread allegations of fraud. Coming just over two months after
Putin announced his plan to return to the presidency following four years as
prime minister, they were the catalyst for mass protests that have rocked the
capital since.

Pussy Riot, a radical feminist punk band, were borne of those protests. Now,
nearly one year after forming, three of the anonymous collective's members have
become among Russia's most famous political prisoners. Two other members of the
group have reportedly fled the country fearing further political reprisals.

Samutsevich, Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova have been in a pre-trial detention
centre in southern Moscow since their arrest in March, and will remain there
while their lawyers appeal their sentence. If the appeal is declined, they will
be sent to women's prison colonies to serve their two-year sentences while
conducting light labour, minus the time they've already served.

"We are all held in special cells, each made for four people, and we're all in
separate cells, on different floors," Samutsevich wrote in a tiny scribble.
"There are three other people in my cell, here for economic crimes. They are
calm, intelligent people who support me and the ideas of our group."

"This isn't surprising, because now only blind people can't see that since March
2012, Putin's regime has moved to direct repressive actions, starting with a
major campaign against all dissenters, under which our group was one of the
first to fall." Government critics have spoken of an increased campaign of
intimidation since Putin's re-election in a controversial March vote.

Several other activists, including opposition leader Alexey Navalny, are also
facing criminal charges.

"We are mentally prepared [for jail]," Samutsevich wrote. "I don't see anything
superscary in having to serve 1.5 years and work. I don't think that it'll
become some sort of especially difficult test for us - we've already lived
through the past five months relatively easily, and the evil plan of our
authorities - to jail us so as to break us and sour us - has already failed
miserably.

"The problem for Putin personally now is that a lot of people no longer see his
strong hand and authority, but his fear and uncertainty in the face of the
progressive citizens of Russia, who grow more and more numerous with every step
like our verdict," Samutsevich wrote.

The Pussy Riot trial has driven a further wedge through Russian society,
splitting mainly urban liberals against a more traditional heartland that was
largely insulted by the women's performance. Yet opposition to Putin continues
to grow; a recent poll by the Levada Centre found that nearly half of all
Russians want him to step down at the end of his term in six years.

Pussy Riot have used performances to highlight the ills they see in Russian
society, from Putin's growing authoritarianism to his close relationship with
the Russian Orthodox Church.

Samutsevich said the trio had not continued writing songs in jail. "The
conditions in the pre-trial detention centre aren't really creative," she wrote.
"For the next one and a half years, we'll have to continue to 'take a break'
from our concert creative work."

She also said the women's future in the group was in question. "Right now it's
hard to say what we'll do when we're free. Of course, I'd want to continue in
the same form of musical performances that we started with, but will our changed
conditions, because of our arrest, allow that? So far I don't know."

"What I can say for sure is that we still madly want changes in Russia - toward
anti-authoritarian leftist ideas. We, along with many citizens of our country,
are burning even more with the desire to finally take from Putin his monopoly on
power, since his image no longer seems so total and terrible," she wrote. "In
fact it is just an illusion, created by his spin doctors on government
television channels."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               35 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Millions face food poverty as Northern Europe is hit by worst drought in 35
years;
France

BYLINE: Adam Sage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 792 words


Bernard Maquis's cattle would normally be grazing in the lush green pastures of
the Limousin region in central France at this time of year. Instead, they are
eating hay intended for the winter after months of drought that has turned the
fields yellow.

He is wondering whether it might be better to sell his cows at a reduced price
rather than find himself without fodder by the end of the autumn. "I'm starting
to sleep badly," he said.

Mr Maquis is not alone. With Northern Europe facing its worst drought since
1976, politicians in the West are expecting protests from farmers, consumer
discontent and a strain on budgets. Third World nations are braced for riots as
Europe's heat wave creates a rise in food prices and drives millions deeper into
poverty.

"We are in a situation of crisis and of crisis management," said Nathalie
Kosciusko-Morizet, the French Ecology Minister. Meteorologists say that Northern
Europe has had 50 per cent less rain than normal over the past two months, while
temperatures have been 4C (7.2F) higher than usual.

In France, water restrictions have been implemented across more than half of the
country and the drought is already comparable to 1976, when a heat wave wrecked
the annual harvest.

The difference, according to MichÈle Blanchard, an engineer in the climatology
division of Météo-France, the French weather office, is that "in 1976 the high
temperatures came in June, not in April".

Germany has had twice as many hours of sunshine as it would normally expect in
the spring. Some German regions have had just 5 per cent of their standard
rainfall. "We desperately need rain," said Andrea Adams, spokeswoman for the
Farmers' Association in Rhineland-Palatinate in Germany.

She said that the wheat was yellow, the sugar beet had barely grown at all and
the rye was "curling up and dying".

In the Limousin, Mr Maquis said that the corn to fatten his cattle in the winter
should be 20cm high by now. "But it's just vegetating," he said, raising the
prospect that he will have to buy in fodder. "But at the price we have to pay,
it's not even worth trying. We may as well just shut up shop."

With breeders across France beginning to sell animals they cannot feed, protests
are under way. In southwest France, farmers blocked roads to a motorway for
several hours last week after they failed to obtain temporary permission to take
water from rivers.

The French Government has asked Brussels to pay (EURO)710 million (£615 million)
in European Union aid several months early. But the French farmers' union also
wants the State to underwrite interest-free loans to help "les agriculteurs"
through the summer.

In Belgium, the Flanders regional council said that it would pay farmers EU aid
out of its budget and then claim the money back from Brussels. But finding
(EURO)249 million is proving difficult.

In France, bakers' unions are predicting a 5c increase in the cost of baguettes,
while in North Rhine-Westphalia, the German region, tomatoes are 26 per cent
more expensive than last year. Governing parties fear that the rises will create
anti-government sentiment that extreme movements will exploit.

With droughts also reported in China and southern US states, the Food and
Agriculture Organisation of the UN fears rioting in poor countries. Officials
said that the global price of cereals had risen 71 per cent over the past 12
months, and while Moscow will lift a ban on exports of wheat, barley, rye, corn
and flour introduced during the heat wave last summer, it may provide only
temporary relief.

Europe's nuclear industry said that it may have to shut down some riverside
reactors if water levels became too low, while champagne vineyards said that
they would harvest grapes in August rather than September as usual.

But not everyone is complaining. Cherry growers said that their fruit was of
exceptional quality, the European tourist industry is also pleased, while the
salt harvesters of Guérande in western France are happy to gather produce two
months earlier than usual.

"We are delighted by the drought," said Marie-ThérÈse Haumont, their
spokeswoman.

Weather Eye, page 47

Summer of discontent

Major wheat growing regions

Champagne vineyards will be harvested in August rather than September

Farmers blocked the A10 motorway last week in protest at not being allowed to
take water from rivers

Nuclear reactors may be forced to shut down if water levels mean that they
cannot be cooled

Munich's beer festival - the Oktoberfest - may be affected as Bavarian hop
fields have suffered

T H E N E T H E R L A N D S B E L G I U M F R A N C E G E R M A N Y Tours
Bordeaux 202 117 FRANCE 159 75 GERMANY 184 80 BELGIUM Total rainfall (mm)
Feb-Apr average since 1975 Feb-Apr 2011 Paris 162 77 THE NETHERLANDS Source:
European Commission

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Many are comparing the drought to 1976 when a heat wave wrecked the
harvest
PASCAL ROSSIGNOL / REUTERS
The scale of the drought can be seen at the Loire River in western France. Water
restrictions are in place but politicians are expecting protests from farmers,
consumer discontent and a strain on budgets
STEPHANE MAHE / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                               37 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                                 Guardian.com.

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Russian opposition figures: where are the others?

BYLINE: Miriam Elderguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 277 words

ABSTRACT

As Alexei Navalny is sentenced to five years in prison, many more anti-Putin
campaigners are in jail or awaiting trial

FULL TEXT

In jail

Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, 23

Member of the anti-Putin punk band Pussy Riot. Arrested in March 2012 for
performing a punk anthem inside the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow
and sentenced in August 2012 to two years in prison after being found guilty of
"hooliganism motivated by religious hatred".

Maria Alyokhina, 25

Member of Pussy Riot. Arrested and sentenced to two years in prison at the same
time as Tolokonnikova.

Konstantin Lebedev, 34

Leftwing political activist sentenced to two and a half years in prison for
"plotting mass unrest" following an anti-Putin protest on 6 May 2012. Lebedev
pleaded guilty amid rumours he was collaborating with the Russian government.

Maxim Luzyanin, 36

Anti-Putin activist sentenced to four and a half years in November 2012 after
admitting to plotting mass unrest during the 6 May protest. Many thought his
decision to co-operate with judicial authorities would result in a lower
sentence.

Awaiting trial

Leonid Razvozzhayev, 40

Leftwing political activist abducted from Ukraine while trying to seek political
asylum in October 2012, currently in pre-trial detention. Awaiting charges of
plotting mass unrest following the 6 May protest that turned violent.

Sergei Udaltsov, 36

Leftwing political activist under house arrest awaiting charges of plotting mass
unrest following the 6 May protest.

On trial

Maria Baronova, 29

Anti-Putin activist on trial for plotting mass unrest following the 6 May
protest.

More than a dozen other Russians who took part in the 6 May protest are on
trial.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


                               38 of 39 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 11, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Euro spiral;
Editorials Warnings are coming from the European Central Bank, and deflation
looms. Now is not the time for more cuts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 615 words


Deflation. It is not a word that we are as familiar with as we ought to be,
given that our closest economic neighbour, the eurozone, seems set to sink
further and further into that unhappy state next year. This week we had more of
what David Cameron called the "red warning lights" illuminating the economic
dashboard. Greek capital markets have suffered another slump, with the
government there looking increasingly beleaguered, and a senior member of the
European Central Bank Council has warned that the eurozone is "massively
weakening". Germany, long the locomotive, is slowing markedly. And that means
less money, and less political support, for any future bailouts that may be
needed. Annual inflation across the eurozone is a mere 0.3 per cent, Italy is in
recession, and France is suffering immobilisme.

Deflation, then, is the danger, and it is just as pernicious and difficult to
control as inflation. Like inflation, it tends to feed on itself, with consumers
and companies putting off spending and saving decisions because of a lack of
confidence and the expectation that next month or next year the price or cost of
any purchase will be lower. That then depresses the economy still further,
weakening prices in a self-generating spiral. Most dangerous of all, the
real-terms value of Europe's massive debts and deficits starts to climb, while
the ability to service those debts weakens.

So when the head of the Austrian Central Bank, Ewald Nowotny, indicates that the
danger is so great that the ECB needs to take urgent action he deserves to be
listened to. Regarded as a "swing" member of the ECB Council, his apparent
conversion to the cause of monetary expansion is telling. The Bundesbank remains
adamant that the ECB must not purchase government bonds issued by eurozone
member states, but resistance to that policy, as Nowotny's defection shows, is
growing. The ECB Council remains badly split, so much so that the authority of
its President, Mario Draghi, is being undermined. Germany, Luxembourg and France
are the blocking force, and the German press is full of rumours about Mr
Draghi's detachment from his Bundesbank colleagues.

About the only good thing to emerge from this quiet crisis is that the euro has
been pushed down to new lows, helping Europe's exports compete, and importing a
little inflation into the system. Yet the absence of an ECB policy of massive
monetary expansion - of the type seen in Britain, America and Japan - means that
deflation is inevitable, even if the ECB acted now, given the leads and lags
that inevitably occur when policy shifts. More stagnation and political
instability beckons.

That, in turn, means an unpromising background for the structural reforms that
many European economies so need to implement. Depressed economies lack the funds
to pay for adjustments on the scale required, while unstable, fragile
governments lack the will to override the inevitable resistance and riots.

Europe's long-term problem is not so much monetary as industrial and commercial.
To restore growth to normal and raise living standards means liberalising labour
markets, deregulating product and capital markets, and opening up competition.
Those are projects Europe talked a good deal about in the good times. In a
deflationary world, they are unlikely to get much attention.

Whoever wins Britain's general election next year will have to deal with what is
happening in the eurozone as well as the domestic economy. The Bank of England
seems set to keep up its programme of monetary expansion, and 2015 will not be
the best time for more austerity. The cuts, in other words, should be postponed,
if we want to avoid Europe's deflationary nightmare.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2014 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                               39 of 39 DOCUMENTS

                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                          November 12, 2005, Saturday

Another paper's view

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 392 words


Beirut Daily Star November 10:

With the recent wave of rioting in France, the jitters across Europe about the
presence of Muslim immigrant communities have intensified. Much fuss has been
made about the rioters' supposed "Islamic" heritage, with some commentators
referring to the violence as "Islamic riots" or "Europe's intifada". But it is a
grave mistake to describe the riots, which have their roots in social and
economic conditions, in religious terms.

There are many reasons for the unrest that swept France. Many of the issues of
grievance are centred around government insensitivity, and officials' slow
response to the electrocution of two teenagers. There is also certainly a case
to be made that poor economic conditions, with unemployment rates as high as 60
per cent in some suburban neighbourhoods, fed the angst that drove rioters to
the streets. And it can also be said that much of the damage was probably done
by angry youths whose main grievance is their adrenalin, not any particular
political or economic issue.

Even rioting itself in France is nothing new. The wide/scale insurrection of
1968, which was started by university and high school students after
confrontations with the police, reached near-revolutionary proportions.

The idea of even labelling the riots 'Islamic' suggests an unbridgeable divide
between Europe and the Islamic world, and between Christians and Muslims.
Similar anxieties about Islam were exposed during the start of Turkey's EU
accession talks, when many Europeans flinched at the idea of admitting the
predominantly Muslim country into the 'Christian club'. But with Turkey now in
the process of accession talks and with more than 12 million Muslims living in
Europe legally and millions more with illegal status, the issue of Islam is no
longer an external matter. Europe's relationship with Islam is very much an
internal affair.

The European Commission issued a report on Wednesday on Turkey's progress in the
EU accession process. It said that overall, Turkey continued to sufficiently
meet the European Union's stringent conditions for accession. This ought to be
welcome news. Europeans can help narrow the gap between West and East by
treating their fellow citizens as equals, without regard to their religion.

--------------------

CAPTION:

RIOTS: Many grievances.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Fairfax New Zealand Newspaper
